PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

1

Introduction

1.1

Background and Rationale

Endocrine therapy represents the foundation of treatment for hormone-receptor
positive metastatic and locally advanced breast cancer. Multiple compounds in
varying classes exist, and those most widely used include the selective estrogen
receptor modulators (SERMs), aromatase inhibitors (AIs), and the selective estrogen
receptor down-regulators (SERDs). Although the utility of these drugs is well
established, as many as 50% of women with hormone-receptor positive breast cancer
will fail to respond to endocrine treatment (de novo resistance). Moreover, those who
do respond will inevitably develop acquired resistance.1 Resistance to endocrine
therapy remains a serious clinical challenge.
Basic scientific research into the mechanisms surrounding endocrine therapy
resistance has been particularly intense in recent years. Advances in this area of
investigation are driving the development of novel treatments and therapeutic
strategies. For example, various signal transduction pathways, when activated, have
been demonstrated to allow breast cancer cells to escape the effect of endocrine
therapy. The Protein Kinase B (Akt/PKB), a downstream target in the PI3 kinase
signaling pathway appears to play a vital role in drug resistance.2 Several studies
identify a close association between aberrant Akt signaling and tamoxifen resistance.3
High levels of Akt activity confer resistance to the aromatase inhibitor letrozole and
the selective estrogen receptor down-regulator fulvestrant.4 This Akt-induced
resistance does not appear to be secondary to failure of these agents to inhibit the
estrogen receptor α activity, but instead may lead to altered cell cycle and apoptotic
response.5 Clinically, Akt/PKB activation in breast cancer appears to predict an
inferior outcome among patients treated with endocrine therapy.6
mTOR, mammalian target of rapamycin, is a cytoplasmic protein kinase that acts as a
central regulator of many biological processes involved in cellular proliferation,
angiogenesis and metabolism. mTOR is a key protein involved in control and
regulation of the cell’s translational machinery through multiple mechanisms including
by directly activating or inhibiting ribosomal activity.7 mTOR is a key intracellular point
of convergence for a number of cellular signaling pathways, including Akt/PKB.8
mTOR lies downstream to Akt/PKB, and targeted inhibition of this protein has
emerged as an important therapeutic strategy in clinical oncology. Inhibition of mTOR
activity has been shown to restore tamoxifen response in breast cancer cells with
aberrant Akt activity.9
Everolimus is an orally bioavailable inhibitor of the mTOR pathway. Combination
treatment with everolimus and either letrozole or fulvestrant has been shown to
reverse Akt-mediated endocrine therapy resistance and restore responsiveness to
anti-estrogens in preclinical studies.5 These observations formed the rationale leading
to the Phase I clinical trial evaluating the combination of everolimus and letrozole in
women previously treated with letrozole ≥ 4 months without objective response (e.g.,
stable or progressive disease). Eighteen postmenopausal female patients with
advanced HR+ breast cancer were treated with letrozole 2.5 mg/day and everolimus
at 5 mg/day (cohort 1) or 10 mg/day (cohort 2).10 Overall the combination was well
tolerated and toxicities were manageable and consistent with that expected for
23

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

everolimus monotherapy. The results suggest antitumor activity for this combination
without Pharmacokinetic (PK) interactions.
This study will examine the efficacy and tolerability of the combination of fulvestrant
and everolimus for the treatment of postmenopausal metastatic breast cancer
resistant to an aromatase inhibitor.

1.2

Breast Cancer

Breast cancer is the most commonly diagnosed malignancy in women worldwide. In
the United States, an estimated 230,480 new cases of invasive breast cancer were
diagnosed in 2011, with 39,520 breast cancer deaths.11 Despite the recent advances
in breast cancer therapy, 40-80% of women with node-positive disease and up to
30% of women with node-negative disease at diagnosis will relapse. When distant
metastases occur, the prognosis remains poor with a median survival of 18 to 36
months from time of recurrence. Among the 60-70% of women with hormone-receptor
positive breast cancer, 40-60% of them will benefit from endocrine therapy. Endocrine
therapy has shown to yield similar survival rates in hormone-sensitive disease as
compared to chemotherapy; although response rates are lower and responses
develop more slowly. Endocrine therapy is considerably less toxic than
chemotherapy, and is therefore the preferred treatment option for patients with
hormone-receptor (HR)-positive disease.12,13 Chemotherapy is generally indicated in
HR-negative disease, in cases unresponsive to endocrine therapy, or when extensive
metastases require rapid tumor response.14

1.3

Endocrine Therapy for Breast Cancer

Several endocrine therapies are available for the treatment of metastatic breast
cancer in postmenopausal women, including selective estrogen-receptor modulators
(SERMs), aromatase inhibitors (AIs), progestins, androgens, and most recently the
selective estrogen receptor downregulators (SERDs- e.g., fulvestrant). Tamoxifen
was generally regarded as a standard option in HR-positive disease for adjuvant
therapy, and for first-line therapy of metastatic disease in postmenopausal women.
Within the past decade, however, the AIs (letrozole, anastrozole, exemestane) have
supplanted tamoxifen as the preferred choice for adjuvant therapy and metastatic
disease in postmenopausal women.15,16 There is therefore a need to develop more
effective endocrine therapies for patients with AI-resistant disease, and to enhance
the effectiveness of existing endocrine therapies that have demonstrated efficacy in
AI-resistant disease.

1.3.1

Fulvestrant for Post Menopausal Women with Breast Cancer

Fulvestrant (Faslodex®, AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP, Wilmington, DE) has
several unique characteristics. It is the first drug which acts as a pure estrogen
receptor (ER) antagonist without known agonist effects. It competitively binds to the
ERs with an approximately 100 times greater affinity than that of tamoxifen.
Fulvestrant promotes the degradation of ERs and subsequently prevents ERmediated gene transcription. Two studies that led to the approval of fulvestrant were
performed in postmenopausal women with HR-positive metastatic breast cancer who
had progressive disease after tamoxifen therapy. These trials compared fulvestrant
24

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

(250 mg IM injection monthly) with anastrozole (1 mg PO daily) (Table 1-0).17,18 The
primary endpoint for both studies was time to disease progression (TTP), which was
similar between the two treatment arms (5.4 versus 3.4 months in the North American
trial, and 5.5 versus 5.1 months in the European trial). Secondary endpoints were
also comparable. The response rate for fulvestrant was 17-20% (versus 15.7-17.5%
for anastrozole), Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR) was 42-45% (versus 36-45% for
anastrozole), median duration of response was 15-19 months (versus 11-15 months
for anastrozole), and median time to disease progression (TTP) was 5.5 months
(versus 3.4-5.1 months for anastrozole). Further subgroups analyses confirm the
clinical activity of fulvestrant in both visceral and non-visceral metastatic disease as
compared with anastrozole.19 These trials led to the approval of Faslodex®
(fulvestrant) Injection for “…the treatment of hormone-receptor positive metastatic
breast cancer in postmenopausal women with disease progression following
antiestrogen therapy”.
Table 1-0
Phase III Studies Comparing Fulvestrant and Anastrozole after TamoxifenFailure in Postmenopausal Women with HR-Positive Metastatic Breast Cancer
North American Trial

18

19

European Trial

Treatment Group:

Fulvestrant

Anastrozole

Fulvestrant

Anastrozole

No. of Patients:

206

194

222

229

Overall RR (%):

17.5

17.5

20.7

15.7

CR (%):

4.9

3.6

4.5

1.7

PR (%):

12.6

13.9

16.2

14.0

42.2

36.1

44.6

45.0

24.8

18.6

23.9

29.3

Median TTP (months):

5.4

3.4

5.5

5.1

Median Duration of Response
(months):

19.0

10.8

15.0

14.5

Withdrawal Rate (%):

2.5

2.6

3.2

1.3

Clinical Benefit Rate (%):
SD for more than 24 weeks (%):

Fulvestrant has also been compared with tamoxifen as first line therapy in a Phase III
trial that included 587 postmenopausal women with HR-positive metastatic breast
cancer, but proved to be no more effective than tamoxifen in this setting.20 When
comparing fulvestrant with tamoxifen, the objective response rate (34% versus 32%)
and clinical benefit rate (57% versus 62%) were similar.

1.3.2

Fulvestrant for Aromatase Inhibitor (AI) Resistant Disease

Several trials have evaluated the role of fulvestrant in AI-resistant disease, as
summarized in Table 1-1.

25

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

Table 1-1
Phase II or III Trial of Fulvestrant in AI-Resistant Disease
Reference
Ingle, 2006

Treatment

No.

RR

CBR

Median TTP

21

Fulvestrant

77

14%

25%

3.0 mo.

22

Fulvestrant

20

5%

37%

3.5 mo.

Fulvestrant

270

7%

23%

3.7 mo.

Exemestane

270

7%

19%

3.7 mo.

Perey, 2007

23

Chia, 2008

The Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR) for patients with AI-resistant disease is approximately
20-30%, and median TTP is approximately 3.5 months. In the EFECT trial reported by
Chia et al, patients who had progressive disease after treatment with a non-steroidal
AI (anastrozole, letrozole) were randomized to fulvestrant or the steroidal aromatase
inhibitor exemestane. In contrast to most other trials that utilized a single 250 mg
monthly dose based upon the original pharmacokinetic studies,23 patients in the
EFECT trial received a 500 mg loading dose on day 1, then 250 mg on day 15 and 28
(then every 4 weeks thereafter) based upon recent evidence that this dose/schedule
may more rapidly achieve therapeutic blood levels. There was no significant
difference in CBR between the two treatment arms. Nevertheless, the EFECT trial
confirmed the effectiveness of fulvestrant previously reported in other smaller trials of
fulvestrant in AI-resistant disease.
Previous trials had demonstrated that a dose of 125 mg was less effective than the
250 mg monthly dose.16,20 Based upon evidence that dosing schedules higher than
the 250 mg monthly dose may produce greater clinical benefit, several trials
evaluated alternative dosing schedules (similar to that used in the EFECT trial),
including FINDER I (NCT00305448), FINDER II (NCT00313170), and CONFIRM
(NCT00099437).

1.3.3

Rationale for Fulvestrant for this Trial

Fulvestrant has demonstrated activity when used as first, second, or third line
endocrine therapy, making it an attractive therapy for combination with other agents.
In addition, it is commonly reserved for use following disease progression on AI
therapy. The loading dose schedule employed in the EFECT trial will be used in this
study taking advantage of the known dose-response effect observed for fulvestrant,
the more rapid achievement of therapeutic blood levels, the extensive efficacy and
safety experience with this schedule, and because it appears to be emerging as the
preferred schedule for fulvestrant based upon the results of ongoing and recently
completed clinical trials.
The recently reported CONFIRM trial compared fulvestrant dosing of 250 mg every
28 days (the previously FDA-approved dose) with 500 mg on days 1, 14, 28 and
every 28 days thereafter (the current FDA-approved dose).24 The study demonstrated
that the higher dose was more effective. Median time to progression (TTP) was 6.5
months with the higher dose compared with 5.5 months with the lower dose (HR 0.8,
p=0.006). The CBR was 45%, with the high dose as compared to 39.6% with the low
dose arm (odds ratio 1.28, p= 0.10). In the subgroup of patients who had

26

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

relapsed/progressed on an aromatase inhibitor (the population targeted in this study),
median TTP was 5.4 months with the high-dose arm, and 4.1 months on the standard
arm (with CBRs of 36% and 32% respectively). We will therefore use the high-dose
regimen as utilized in the CONFIRM trial.24

1.4

Everolimus (RAD001)

Everolimus (RAD001) is a novel oral derivative of rapamycin that is an m-TOR
inhibitor.
Everolimus has been in clinical development since 1996 as an immunosuppressant in
solid organ transplantation. Everolimus is approved in Europe and other global
markets (trade name: Certican®) for cardiac and renal transplantation, and in the
United States (trade name: Zortress®) for the prevention of organ rejection of kidney
transplantation.
Everolimus was developed in oncology as Afinitor® and was approved for advanced
renal cell carcinoma (RCC) in 2009. In 2010, Afinitor® received United States (US)
approval for patients with subependymal giant cell astrocytoma (SEGA) associated
with tuberous sclerosis (TS). Everolimus is also available as Votubia® in the
European Union (EU) for patients with SEGA associated with TS. Afinitor® was
approved for “progressive pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor (PNET) in patients with
unresectable, locally advanced, or metastatic disease” in 2011 in various countries,
including the US and Europe.
In 2012 Afinitor® received approval for the treatment of postmenopausal women with
advanced hormone receptor-positive, HER2-negative breast cancer (advanced HR+
BC) in combination with exemestane, after failure of treatment with letrozole or
anastrozole. Furthermore in 2012, Afinitor® received approval for the treatment of
patients with Tuberous Sclerosis Complex (TSC) who have renal angiomyolipoma not
requiring immediate surgery.
Everolimus is being investigated as an anticancer agent based on its potential to act:
•

Directly on the tumor cells by inhibiting tumor cell growth and proliferation.

•

Indirectly by inhibiting angiogenesis leading to reduced tumor vascularity (via
potent inhibition of tumor cell HIF-1 activity, VEGF production and VEGF-induced
proliferation of endothelial cells). The role of angiogenesis in the maintenance of
solid tumor growth is well established, and the mTOR pathway has been
implicated in the regulation of tumor production of proangiogenic factors as well
as modulation of VEGFR signaling in endothelial cells.

At weekly and daily schedules and at various doses explored, everolimus is generally
well tolerated. The most frequent adverse events (rash, mucositis, fatigue and
headache) associated with everolimus therapy are manageable. Non-infectious
pneumonitis has been reported with mTOR inhibitors but is commonly low-grade and
reversible.

1.4.1

mTOR Pathway and Mechanism of Action

At cellular and molecular levels, everolimus acts as a signal transduction inhibitor.
Everolimus selectively inhibits mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin), specifically
27

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

targeting the mTOR-raptor signal transduction complex. mTOR is a key and highly
conserved serine-threonine kinase which is present in all cells and is a central
regulator of protein synthesis and ultimately cell growth, cell proliferation,
angiogenesis and cell survival. mTOR is the only currently known target of
everolimus.25
mTOR is downstream of PI3K/AKT pathway, a pathway known to be dysregulated in
a wide spectrum of human cancers (e.g. through loss/mutation of the PTEN negative
regulator; through PI3K mutation/amplification; through AKT/PKB overexpression/
overactivation; through modulation of TSC1/TSC2 tumor suppressors). In addition,
activation of the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway is associated with worsening prognosis
through increased aggressiveness, resistance to treatment and progression.
The main known functions of mTOR include the following:7,25
•
•
•

•
•

mTOR functions as a sensor of mitogens, growth factors and energy, and nutrient
levels, facilitating cell-cycle progression from G1 to S phase in appropriate growth
conditions.
The PI3K-mTOR pathway itself is frequently activated in many human cancers,
and oncogenic transformation may sensitize tumor cells to mTOR inhibitors.
Through inactivating eukaryotic initiation factor 4E binding proteins (4E-BP1) and
activating the 40S ribosomal S6 kinases (e.g., p70S6K1), mTOR regulates protein
translation, including the HIF-1 proteins. Inhibition of mTOR is expected to lead to
decreased expression of HIF-1.
The activation of mTOR pathway is involved in the production of pro-angiogenic
factors (i.e., VEGF) and inhibition of endothelial cell growth and proliferation.
The regulation of mTOR signaling is complex and involves positive regulators,
such as AKT that phosphorylate and inactivate negative regulators such as the
Tuberous Sclerosis Complex (TSC1/TSC2).

mTOR is represented by two structurally and functionally distinct multiprotein
signaling complexes, mTORC1 (mTOR complex 1, rapamycin sensitive) and
mTORC2 (mTOR complex 2, rapamycin insensitive).26
mTORC1 is mainly activated via the PI3 kinase pathway through AKT (also known as
PKB, protein kinase B) and the tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC1/TSC2).7 Activated
AKT phosphorylates TSC2, which leads to the dissociation of TSC1/TSC2 complex,
thus inhibiting the ability of TSC2 to act as a GTPase activating protein. This allows
Rheb, a small G-protein, to remain in a GTP bound state and to activate mTORC1.
AKT can also activate mTORC1 by PRAS40 phosphorylation, thereby relieving the
PRAS40-mediated inhibition of mTORC1.27,28
mTORC2 (mTOR complex 2) is activated through a currently unknown mechanism,
possibly by receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) signaling.27 It has been suggested that
mTORC2 phosphorylates and activates a different pool of AKT that is not upstream of
mTORC1. PHLPP phosphatase plays a role of a negative regulator. mTORC2 is
rapamycin insensitive and is required for the organization of the actin cytoskeleton.26
mTORC1-mediated signaling is subject to modulation by the macrocyclic lactone
rapamycin and its derivatives, such as everolimus. Once these agents bind to the 12
kDa cytosolic FK506-binding protein immunophilin FKBP12, the resulting rapamycinFKBP12 complexes bind to a specific site near the catalytic domain of mTORC1 and
28

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

inhibit phosphorylation of mTOR substrates. As a consequence, downstream
signaling events involved in regulation of the G1 to S-phase transition are inhibited.
This mechanism is thought to be responsible for the immunosuppressive effects of
rapamycin as well as its putative antineoplastic activity.29 As many cancers are
characterized by dysregulation of G1 transit (for example, overexpression of cyclin or
cyclin-dependent kinases), inhibition of mTOR becomes an intriguing target for
inducing cytostasis.7
1.4.1.1

Preclinical Studies

Everolimus acts as an inhibitor of cytokine and growth-factor-dependent proliferation
of cells. The only currently known target of everolimus is mTOR, a key regulatory
protein affecting cell growth.25 Everolimus exerts its activity through high affinity
interaction with an intracellular receptor protein, the immunophilin FKBP12. The
FKBP12/everolimus complex subsequently interacts with the mTOR protein kinase,
inhibiting downstream signaling events involved in regulation of the G1 to S-phase
transition.
The main known functions of mTOR include:
•

Function as a sensor of mitogens, growth factors, energy and nutrient levels,
facilitating cell-cycle progression from G1 - S phase in appropriate growth
conditions.

•

Regulation of protein synthesis important for tumor cell proliferation and
angiogenesis through inactivating eukaryotic initiation factor 4E binding proteins
and activating the 40S ribosomal S6 kinases (e.g. p70S6K1). For example,
activation of the mTOR pathway leads to a) increased production of proangiogenic factors (e.g. VEGF) in tumors b) tumor, endothelial and smooth
muscle cell growth and proliferation.

The PI3K-mTOR pathway itself is frequently activated in many human cancers, and
oncogenic transformation may sensitize tumor cells to mTOR inhibitors. The
regulation of mTOR signaling is complex and involves positive regulators such as
AKT that phosphorylate and inactivate negative regulators such as the Tuberous
Sclerosis Complex (TSC1/TSC2). In summary, mTOR has pleiotropic functions;
hence, the activities of everolimus may vary depending upon cell type.
The mTOR inhibitory activities presumably contribute to the anti-proliferative activity
of everolimus against tumor cell lines. However, everolimus may also exert an
antitumor effect through the inhibition of angiogenesis. Indeed, both rapamycin and
everolimus potently inhibit proliferation of endothelial cells and have antiangiogenic
activity in vivo.30,31 Exactly which molecular determinants predict responsiveness of
tumor cells to everolimus is still unclear. Currently, the activation status of the
PI3K/AKT/mTOR/p70 S6K pathway may be indicative of responsiveness to
rapamycins. For example, pre-clinically, loss of PTEN or constitutive/hyper-activation
of AKT has been suggested to sensitize tumors to the effects of inhibition of
mTOR.25,31 Also, clinically, it has been suggested that high p70S6K activation in
baseline Glioblastoma Multiforme (GBM) tumor samples may predict a patient
population more likely to derive benefit from mTOR inhibition.32

29

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

Everolimus is a highly specific inhibitor of mTOR, which is afforded by high-affinity
binding to the protein FKBP-12 (IC50 of 5.3 nM) similar to that of rapamycin. Similar
potency of rapamycin and everolimus was also demonstrated at forming the mTOR/
FKBP-12 tertiary complex in vitro. Specificity was demonstrated by a lack of inhibitory
activity against 10 other protein kinases at concentrations up to 10 μM.
The anti-proliferative effects of everolimus were investigated in a mixed panel of 48
different tumor cell lines (including breast, colon, epidermoid, glioblastoma, lung,
melanoma, prostate and renal). The majority of tumor cell lines were highly sensitive
to the anti-proliferative effects of everolimus while a few others appeared intrinsically
insensitive, or ‘resistant’ (IC50 range 0.2 to 4125 nM).33 The median IC50 value of the
48 cell lines was 0.5 nM. Similar findings have been observed for rapamycin.34
Everolimus was also shown to have activity in human pancreatic neuroendocrine
cells, where induction of apoptosis was reported,35 as well as in acute myeloid
leukemia cells,36 mantle cell lymphoma cells37, adult T-cell leukemia cells38, diffuse
large B cell lymphoma cells,39 pancreatic tumor cells,40 ovarian cancer cells,31,41 and
hepatocellular carcinoma cells.42
Everolimus was also evaluated in a clonogenic assay using cells derived from 81
patient derived tumor xenografts never cultured in vitro (11 human tumor types with 3
to 24 tumors each: bladder, colon, gastric, Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC),
Small Cell Lung Cancer (SCLC), breast, ovary, pancreatic, renal, melanoma, and
pleuramesothelioma). Everolimus inhibited colony formation in a concentrationdependent manner (mean IC50: 175 nM). In addition, normal hematopoetic stem cells
were found to be relatively insensitive to everolimus, with an IC50 about 15 fold higher
than the tumor lines.
Everolimus was effective and well tolerated against subcutaneous (s.c.) tumors
established from a variety of tumor cell lines of diverse histotypes (NSCLC,
pancreatic, colon, melanoma, epidermoid), including a PgP170-overexpressing, multidrug resistant tumor line. Typically, the antitumor activity of everolimus was that of
reduction of tumor growth rates rather than producing regressions or stable disease
although, in the case of A549 and NCI-H596 lung and ARJ42 pancreatic tumors,
regressions could be obtained. These effects occurred within the dose range of 2.5 to
10 mg/kg, P.O., once per day. The change in tumor volume of the treated mice
divided by the change in tumor volume of control mice (T/C) typically ranged from
approximately 15 to 50% at optimal doses. A marked loss of antitumor activity
occurred when tumor-bearing mice were treated with everolimus once per week, but
improved moderately with twice per week dosing. Antitumor activity of everolimus has
also been demonstrated in mouse models of ovarian,31 breast,43,44 and
gastrointestinal stromal tumors.45

1.4.2

Pre-Clinical Safety

In safety pharmacology studies, everolimus was devoid of relevant effects on vital
organ functions including the cardiovascular, respiratory and nervous systems.
Everolimus had no effects on QT interval. Furthermore, everolimus showed no
antigenic potential. Although everolimus passes the blood-brain barrier, there was no
indication of relevant changes in the behavior of rodents, even after single oral doses
up to 2000 mg/kg or after repeated administration at up to 40 mg/kg/day.
30

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

The preclinical safety profile of everolimus was assessed in mice, rats, minipigs,
monkeys, and rabbits. The major target organs were male and female reproductive
systems (testicular tubular degeneration, reduced sperm content in epididymides and
uterine atrophy) in several species; lungs (increased alveolar macrophages) in rats
and mice; and eyes (lenticular anterior suture line opacities) in rats only. Minor kidney
changes were seen in the rat (exacerbation of age-related lipofuscin in tubular
epithelium, increases in hydronephrosis) and mouse (exacerbation of background
lesions). There was no indication of kidney toxicity in monkeys or minipigs.
Genotoxicity studies covering relevant genotoxicity endpoints showed no evidence of
clastogenic or mutagenic activity. Administration of everolimus for up to 2 years did
not indicate any oncogenic potential in mice and rats up to the highest doses,
corresponding respectively to 4.2 and 0.2 times the estimated clinical exposure. In
reproduction studies, everolimus was toxic to the conceptus in rats and rabbits, and
was considered potentially teratogenic in rats. It is therefore recommended that
women of childbearing potential should use effective contraceptive measures during
the entire treatment period and for 8 weeks thereafter.
More pre-clinical information is provided in the Investigator’s Brochure.

1.4.3
1.4.3.1

Clinical Experience

Everolimus Pharmacokinetics

Everolimus is rapidly absorbed with a median tmax of 1-2 hours. The steady-state
AUC0-τ is dose-proportional over the dose range between 5 to 70 mg in the weekly
regimen and 5 and 10 mg in the daily regimen. Steady-state was achieved within two
weeks with the daily dosing regimen. Cmax is dose-proportional between 5 and 10 mg
for both the weekly and daily regimens. At doses of 20 mg/week and higher, the
increase in Cmax is less than dose proportional. In healthy subjects, high fat meals
reduced systemic exposure to everolimus 10 mg (as measured by Area Under the
Concentration Time-Curve (AUC)) by 22% and the peak plasma concentration Cmax
by 54%. Light fat meals reduced AUC by 32% and Cmax by 42%. Food, however, had
no apparent effect on the post absorption phase concentration-time profile.
The blood-to-plasma ratio of everolimus, which is concentration-dependent over the
range of 5 to 5,000 ng/mL, is 17% to 73%. The amount of everolimus confined to the
plasma is approximately 20% at blood concentrations observed in cancer patients
given everolimus 10 mg/day. Plasma protein binding is approximately 74% both in
healthy subjects and in patients with moderate hepatic impairment.
Everolimus is a substrate of CYP3A4 and a substrate and moderate inhibitor of PgP.
Following oral administration, everolimus is the main circulating component in human
blood and is considered to contribute the majority of the overall pharmacologic
activity. No specific excretion studies have been undertaken in cancer patients;
however, data available from the transplantation setting found the drug to be mainly
eliminated through the feces. There was a significant correlation between AUC0-τ and
pre-dose trough concentration at steady-state on the daily regimen. The mean
elimination half-life of everolimus is approximately 30 hours.
Appendix C lists examples of clinically relevant CYP3A4 inhibitors and inducers.

31

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

Please refer to Section 5.3.5 for more information on the concomitant use of CYP3A4
inhibitors/inducers and other medications.
More information on everolimus pharmacokinetics is provided in the Investigator’s
Brochure.
1.4.3.2

Everolimus Pharmacodynamic Studies

Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic modeling based on inhibition of the biomarker
p70S6 kinase 1 [S6K1] in peripheral blood mononuclear cells [PBMC]) suggests that
5-10 mg daily should be an adequate dose to produce a high-degree of sustained
target inhibition ([Study C2101]/[Study 2102]).46 Molecular changes in tumor were
evaluated through serial biopsy before and during treatment. Biopsy on treatment
took place in week 4 (pharmacokinetic steady-state). All patients underwent a 24hour post-dose biopsy. Patients following the weekly regimen had a further biopsy on
Day 4 or 5 of the same week. Molecular activity was measured by
immunohistochemistry. In the absence of a reliable technique for measuring mTOR
phosphorylation, the phosphorylation status of downstream markers S6 and eIF4G,
for which reliable antibodies exist, was selected as reflecting the immediate
pharmacodynamic effect of everolimus. Also measured were changes in the
phosphorylation status of upstream AKT and the proliferation index Ki67. Fifty-five
patients were treated and the results revealed a dose and schedule dependent
inhibition of the mTOR pathway with a near complete inhibition of pS6 and pelF-4G at
the 10 mg/day and 50 mg/wk schedules. In addition, pAKT was upregulated in 50% of
the treated tumors. In the daily schedule, there was a correlation between everolimus
plasma trough concentrations and inhibition of peIF4G and p4E-BP1. There was
good concordance of mTOR pathway inhibition between skin and tumor. [Study
C2107].47
More information on everolimus pharmacodynamics is provided in the Investigator’s
Brochure (IB).
1.4.3.3

Clinical Experience with Everolimus

Everolimus has been in clinical development since 1996 as an immunosuppressant in
solid organ transplantation and was approved in Europe in 2003 under the trade
name Certican®, for the prevention of organ rejection in patients with renal and
cardiac transplantation. It is also approved in the United States (trade name:
Zortress®) for the prevention of organ rejection of kidney transplantation. Additional
non-oncologic indications currently being explored are wet age-related macular
degeneration (AMD) and autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD).
Clinical experience of everolimus in the transplant indication is summarized in a
separate Investigator’s Brochure.
In oncology, everolimus has been in clinical development since 2002 for patients with
various hematologic and non-hematologic malignancies as a single agent or in
combination with antitumor agents. Please note that safety pharmacology and
toxicology studies as well as some human pharmacology studies which have been
conducted in support of the transplant indication, are described in the oncology IB
due to the relevance of these data for the oncology indication. Malignancies that are
currently being evaluated in Novartis sponsored studies include the following:
32

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC), breast cancer, gastroenteropancreatic
neuroendocrine tumors (GEP-NET), mantle cell lymphoma and diffuse large B cell
lymphoma (DLBCL), hepatocellular cancer (HCC), gastric cancer, and lung cancer. In
addition, treatment of patients with Tuberous Sclerosis Complex (TSC) associated
subependymal giant cell astrocytoma (SEGA) and Angiomyolypoma is also being
evaluated. Colorectal cancer (CRC) is no longer being evaluated.
Everolimus 2.5 mg, 5 mg and 10 mg tablets were approved under the trade name
Afinitor® for patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma in the US, EU and several
other countries and is undergoing registration in other regions worldwide. Recent
approval was granted in the US for the treatment of patients with subependymal giant
cell astrocytoma (SEGA) associated with tuberous sclerosis (TS) who require
therapeutic intervention but are not candidates for curative surgical resection.
Phase I dose escalating studies, exploratory Phase I/II studies with everolimus as
single agent or in combination with other anti-cancer agents, Phase II/III studies of
everolimus in indications, and Phase III double-blind studies are contributing to the
extensive database.
Approximately 18,730 cancer patients have been treated with everolimus as of 30Sep-2011:
•
•
•
•

9,528 patients in Novartis-sponsored clinical trials
2,559 patients in the individual patient supply program
6,638 in investigator-sponsored studies.
In addition, healthy volunteer subjects have participated in the clinical
pharmacology studies as described in Section 1.4.3.1.

As of 30-Sep-2011, there are a total of 11 Phase III trials ongoing in the indications
mRCC (1), advanced NET (2), breast cancer (3), TSC (2), DLBCL (1), gastric cancer
(1) and HCC (1).
Recent approvals of everolimus (Afinitor®) were based upon a Phase III, international,
multicenter randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study [C2240] in patients
with metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC) whose disease had progressed despite
prior treatment with VEGFR-TKI (vascular endothelial growth factor receptor tyrosine
kinase inhibitor) therapy. Progression-free survival (PFS) assessed via a blinded,
independent central review, was the primary endpoint. Secondary endpoints included
safety and objective tumor response.
In the pivotal, Phase III study [C2240], which included patients with advanced renal
cell carcinoma, the most common adverse reactions (incidence ≥ 10%) were
stomatitis, rash, fatigue, asthenia, diarrhea, anorexia, nausea, mucosal inflammation,
vomiting, pneumonitis, cough, peripheral edema, infections, dry skin, epistaxis,
pruritus, and dyspnea. The most common grade 3-4 adverse reactions (incidence ≥
2%) were infections, stomatitis, fatigue, and pneumonitis. Non-infectious pneumonitis
is a class effect of rapamycin derivatives, including everolimus and some of these
cases have been severe and on rare occasions, fatal outcomes have been observed.
Everolimus has immunosuppressive properties and may predispose patients to
bacterial, fungal, viral or protozoan infections, including infections with opportunistic
pathogens. Localized and systemic infections, including pneumonia, other bacterial
infections, invasive fungal infections, such as aspergillosis or candidiasis and viral
33

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

infections including reactivation of hepatitis B virus, have been described in patients
taking everolimus. Some of these infections have been severe (e.g. leading to
respiratory or hepatic failure) and occasionally have had a fatal outcome.
The most common laboratory abnormalities (incidence ≥ 50%) were anemia,
hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia, hyperglycemia, lymphopenia, and
increased creatinine. The most common grade 3/4 laboratory abnormalities
(incidence ≥ 3%) were lymphopenia, hyperglycemia, anemia, hypophosphatemia, and
hypercholesterolemia. Deaths due to acute respiratory failure (0.7%), infection
(0.7%), and acute renal failure (0.4%) were observed on the everolimus arm. The
rates of treatment-emergent adverse reactions resulting in permanent discontinuation
were 7% and 0% for the everolimus and placebo treatment groups, respectively.
Safety data from study [C2240] are described in detail in Section 1.4.3.3.
Overall, safety data available from completed, controlled and uncontrolled studies are
consistent with the aforementioned findings of the Phase III trial. Everolimus is
generally well tolerated at weekly and daily dose schedules. The safety profile is
characterized by manageable adverse events (AEs). These AEs are generally
reversible and non-cumulative.
Further detailed information regarding everolimus clinical development, safety and
efficacy is provided in the Investigator’s Brochure.
1.4.3.4

Clinical Experience with Everolimus in Metastatic Breast Cancer
Resistant to Non-Steroidal Aromatase Inhibitors

Based on data indicating that resistance to endocrine therapy in breast cancer is
associated with activation of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) intracellular
signaling pathway, a Phase 3, randomized trial (BOLERO2) compared the steroidal
aromatase inhibitor exemestane (25 mg PO daily) plus either everolimus (10 mg PO
daily) or a placebo (randomly assigned in a 2:1 ratio) in 724 patients with HR-positive
advanced breast cancer who had recurrence or progression while receiving previous
therapy with a nonsteroidal aromatase inhibitor in the adjuvant setting or to treat
advanced disease (or both). The primary end point was progression-free survival.
Secondary end points included survival, response rate, and safety. A preplanned
interim analysis was performed by an independent data and safety monitoring
committee after 359 progression-free survival events were observed. Baseline
characteristics were well balanced between the two study groups. The median age
was 62 years, 56% had visceral involvement, and 84% had hormone-sensitive
disease. Previous therapy included letrozole or anastrozole (100%), tamoxifen (48%),
fulvestrant (16%), and chemotherapy (68%). The most common grade 3 or 4 adverse
events were stomatitis (8% in the everolimus-plus-exemestane group vs. 1% in the
placebo-plus-exemestane group), anemia (6% vs. <1%), dyspnea (4% vs. 1%),
hyperglycemia (4% vs. <1%), fatigue (4% vs. 1%), and pneumonitis (3% vs. 0%). At
the interim analysis, median progression-free survival was 6.9 months with
everolimus plus exemestane and 2.8 months with placebo plus exemestane,
according to assessments by local investigators (hazard ratio for progression or
death, 0.43; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.35 to 0.54; P<0.001). Median
progression-free survival was 10.6 months and 4.1 months, respectively, according to
central assessment (hazard ratio, 0.36; 95% CI, 0.27 to 0.47; P<0.001). The study
met its pre-specified endpoint, which led to FDA approval of everolimus in
34

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

combination with exemestane for this indication in the U.S. on July 20, 2012.48
Overall survival results were immature at the time of the interim analysis, with a total
of 83 deaths: 10.7% of patients in the combination-therapy group and 13.0% of those
in the exemestane-alone group died. Patients and investigators continue to be
unaware of study assignments and will remain so until survival results are mature for
analysis.49

1.5

Rationale and Study Design

We hypothesize more complete blockade of the ER-signaling pathway may be
achieved with selective estrogen receptor downregulator fulvestrant (given at a high
dose) than may be achieved with the steroidal AI exemestane, and that this will result
in either comparable or greater effectiveness for the fulvestrant-everolimus
combination than the exemestane-everolimus combination. This is supported by
preclinical data demonstrating that fulvestrant is particularly effective when combined
with agents targeting the PI3K-AKT-m-TOR pathway in tumors that have undergone
long-term estrogen deprivation, as is the case for patients who have acquired
resistance to AI therapy.50
We therefore propose to study the efficacy of fulvestrant in combination with
everolimus for the treatment of post-menopausal HR-positive metastatic breast
cancer in women who have progressed after treatment with an aromatase inhibitor.
The combination of a novel class of agents (mTOR inhibitors) and an established
standard treatment for metastatic HR-positive breast cancer may potentially increase
the clinical benefit by targeting multiple different biological pathways.
This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled Phase II study. It is expected
that 130 patients will be accrued at 25 centers within the US. Patients will be
randomized (1:1) to receive everolimus or placebo after consideration of stratification
factors of performance status (0 vs.1), measurable disease (with or without nonmeasurable) vs. non-measurable disease, and prior chemotherapy for metastatic
disease vs. no prior chemotherapy.
Induction Phase:
Treatment during the Induction Phase includes:
Fulvestrant 500 mg IM (two-250 mg injections per dose) on day 1 & 15 of Cycle 1,
then 500 mg IM (two-250 mg injections) on day 1 of all subsequent cycles (every 28
days) plus everolimus 10 mg (two- 5 mg tablets) PO daily
OR
Fulvestrant 500 mg IM (two-250 mg injections per dose) on day 1 & 15 of Cycle 1,
then 500 mg IM (two-250 mg injections) on day 1 of all subsequent cycles (every 28
days) plus placebo two tablets PO daily
Patients will be evaluated for disease response every 12 weeks (every 3 treatment
cycles), +/- 1 week, and treated until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity or for
a total of up to 12 cycles.

35

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

Continuation Phase:
Patients with no evidence of progressive disease who remain on study after
completing Cycle 12 will be unblinded and proceed to the Continuation Phase.
Patients in the Continuation Phase should continue to receive fulvestrant alone (if
originally randomized to placebo) or in combination with everolimus (if originally
randomized to everolimus) at the same dose and schedule. Patients will continue to
be evaluated for disease response every 12 weeks (every 3 treatment cycles), +/- 1
week, and may continue treatment until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
All patients will be followed for 30 days for toxicity after the last dose of study therapy
(fulvestrant and/or everolimus/placebo) or until recovery from all toxicity (to ≤ grade 1)
attributed to study therapy, whichever is longer (or if >grade 1, event must be
permanent and stable).

36

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

2

Objectives

2.1

Primary Objective

To assess progression-free survival in post-menopausal patients with hormonereceptor positive metastatic breast cancer that is resistant to aromatase inhibitor
therapy treated with fulvestrant and everolimus compared to fulvestrant alone.

2.2

Secondary Objectives

To describe the safety profile, objective response rate, time to progression and
overall survival in this patient population.

37

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

3

Selection of Patients

3.1

Eligibility Criteria

Each of the criteria in the following section must be met in order for a patient to be
considered eligible for this study.
PrECOG will not grant any exceptions or waivers to protocol eligibility criteria.
In calculating pre-treatment days of tests and measurements, the day a test or
measurement is done is considered Day 0. Therefore, if a test is done on a
Monday, the Monday four weeks later would be considered Day 28.
Note: All questions regarding eligibility should be directed to the PrECOG Study
Contact in study materials. Questions will be further discussed with the medical leads
for the trial as deemed appropriate (e.g., medical monitor, study chair).
Investigator sites may use the eligibility checklist (see Appendix A: Eligibility
Checklist) which will be provided as a separate study document, as documentation
that eligibility criteria were verified. If used, it should be reviewed, signed, and dated
prior to patient randomization by the treating physician, and all required elements of
source documentation must be found in the patient record (e.g. scans, consent,
pathology).
Inclusion Criteria:
1. Must be willing to sign a protocol-specific informed consent.
2. Patients must be 18 years of age or older.
3. Patients must have an ECOG Performance Status 0 or 1 (see Appendix B:
ECOG Performance Status Scale).
4. Patients must have histologically or cytologically confirmed adenocarcinoma
of the breast.
5. Patients must have stage IV disease or inoperable locally advanced disease.
6. Patients must have ER and/or PR-positive disease as determined by their
local pathology or reference laboratory by ASCO-CAP criteria.51 Tumors must
be HER-2/neu negative or equivocal by standard ICH/FISH or ICH/CISH
methodologies by ASCO-CAP criteria.52
7. Patients must be Aromatase Inhibitor (AI) resistant, defined as:
•
•

relapsed while receiving adjuvant therapy with an aromatase inhibitor
(anastrozole, letrozole, or exemestane) or,
progressive disease while receiving an aromatase inhibitor for metastatic
disease.

Note: Patients may have received an endocrine agent (e.g., Tamoxifen)
between the time of progression on an AI and registration.

38

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

8. Patients who have received one prior cycle (dose on day 1 and day 15) of
fulvestrant within 28 days of randomization are eligible so long as they meet
other eligibility criteria.
•

patients previously treated with two or more prior cycles of fulvestrant are
not eligible.

9. Patients must be female and postmenopausal, defined as:
•
•
•
•

•

a history of at least 12 months without spontaneous menstrual bleeding or,
prior bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, with or without hysterectomy or,
age ≥ 55 years with a prior hysterectomy with or without oophorectomy or,
age <55 years with a prior hysterectomy without oophorectomy or
unknown status, with a documented FSH level in postmenopausal range
within 4 weeks of randomization or,
receiving a gonadotropin releasing hormone analog (GnRH) to suppress
ovarian function (e.g., goserelin 3.6 mg q 4 weeks).

10. Patients may have received up to one prior systemic chemotherapy regimen
for metastatic disease.
11. Adequate organ function, as evidenced by ALL the following obtained within 4
weeks of randomization*:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

•

total white blood cell count (leukocytes, WBC) ≥ 3.0 x 109/L, absolute
neutrophil count (ANC) ≥ 1.5 x 109/L and platelet count ≥ 100 x 109/L
hemoglobin ≥ 9 g/dL
serum bilirubin ≤ 1.5 x ULN
AST or ALT ≤ 2.5 x ULN (≤ 5 x ULN in patients with liver metastases)
serum creatinine ≤ 1.5 x ULN
serum albumin ≥ 3 g/dL
fasting serum cholesterol ≤ 300 mg/dL OR ≤ 7.75 mmol/L AND fasting
triglycerides ≤ 2.5 x ULN. Note: In case one or both of these thresholds
are exceeded, the patient can only be included after initiation of
appropriate lipid lowering medication.
PT with INR ≤ 1.5 (Anticoagulation is allowed if target INR ≤ 1.5 on a
stable dose of warfarin or on a stable dose of LMW heparin for >2 weeks
at time of randomization.)

*Please see study table in Section 7.0 for labs that may need to be repeated
within ≤ 7 days of Cycle 1 Day 1 (C1D1).
12. Patients may have measurable disease, non-measurable disease (e.g., bone
only metastases), or both per RECIST Version 1.1 Criteria. Measurable
lesions are defined as those that can be accurately measured in at least one
dimension (longest diameter to be recorded) as ≥ 20 mm by chest x-ray, as ≥
10 mm with CT scan, or ≥ 10 mm with calipers by clinical exam. All tumor
measurements must be recorded in millimeters (or decimal fractions of
centimeters). Note: Tumor lesions that are situated in a previously irradiated
area are not considered measurable.
39

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

13. Patients with basal cell or squamous cell carcinoma of the skin or carcinoma
in situ of the cervix within the past five years must have been treated with
curative intent. Patients with a history of prior malignancy are eligible provided
they were treated with curative intent and have been free of disease for >3
years.
Exclusion Criteria:
1. Patients who have had any major surgery or significant traumatic injury within
4 weeks of randomization, or have not recovered from the side effects of any
major surgery (defined as requiring general anesthesia) or patients that may
require major surgery during the course of the study are not eligible.
(Placement of vascular access device will not be considered major surgery.)
2. Patients may not be receiving any other investigational agents or have
received any investigational agent within 4 weeks of randomization.
3. Patients must not be receiving any concomitant anticancer treatment or have
received anticancer treatment within 4 weeks of randomization (including
chemotherapy, radiation therapy, antibody based therapy, etc.), with the
following exceptions:
•

Bisphosphonates, Zometa or Xgeva for bone metastases

•

Hormonal therapy (e.g., AI, Tamoxifen)

•

a GnRH analog is permitted if the patient had progressive disease on a
GnRH analog plus a SERM or an AI; the GnRH analog may continue but
the SERM or AI must be discontinued.

4. Patients must not have received prior treatment with an mTOR inhibitor
(sirolimus, temsirolimus, everolimus).
5. Patients must not be receiving chronic, systemic treatment with corticosteroids
or another immunosuppressive agent greater than or equal to 5 mg
prednisone or its equivalent daily. Topical or inhaled corticosteroids are
allowed.
6. Patients must not receive immunization with attenuated live vaccines within
one week of randomization or during the study period. Close contact with
those who have received attenuated live vaccines should be avoided during
treatment with everolimus. Examples of live vaccines include intranasal
influenza, measles, mumps, rubella, oral polio, BCG, yellow fever, varicella
and TY21a typhoid vaccines.
7. Patients must not have current or a prior history of brain metastases or
leptomeningeal disease. Patients must not have rapidly progressive, lifethreatening metastases. This includes patients with extensive hepatic
involvement (>50% of the liver involved) and symptomatic lymphangitic
metastases.
8. Patients must not have a known hypersensitivity/history of allergic reactions
attributed to compounds of similar chemical or biologic composition to
everolimus (or other rapamycins such as sirolimus, temsirolimus) or
fulvestrant.
40

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

9. Since everolimus may cause bone marrow suppression, patients with
congenital or acquired immune deficiency at increased risk of infection are not
eligible. This includes patients being treated with chronic immunosuppressive
agents (including greater than or equal to 5 mg prednisone or its equivalent
daily), and patients with known HIV seropositivity.
10. Patients must not have any impairment of gastrointestinal function or
gastrointestinal disease that may significantly alter the absorption of
everolimus (e.g., ulcerative disease, uncontrolled nausea, vomiting, diarrhea,
malabsorption syndrome or small bowel resection).
11. Patients must not have an active, bleeding diathesis.
12. Patients must not have a history of any condition or uncontrolled intercurrent
illness including, but not limited to, ongoing or active infection or psychiatric
illness/social situations that in the opinion of the local investigator might
interfere with or limit the patient’s ability to comply with the protocol or pose
additional or unacceptable risk to the patient.
13. Patients must not have any severe and/or uncontrolled medical conditions or
other conditions that could affect their participation in the study such as:
•

Symptomatic congestive heart failure of New York Heart Association Class
III or IV (see Appendix D)

•

Unstable angina pectoris, myocardial infarction within 6 months of
randomization, serious uncontrolled cardiac arrhythmia or any other
clinically significant cardiac disease

•

History of symptomatic pulmonary disease or non-malignant pulmonary
disease (e.g. COPD) requiring treatment. Such patients would be eligible if
PFTs performed within 8 weeks of treatment noted a DLCO greater than
50%.

•

Uncontrolled diabetes as defined by fasting serum glucose >1.5 x ULN
(Note: Optimal glycemic control should be achieved before starting trial
therapy.)

•

Active (acute or chronic) or uncontrolled severe infections

•

Liver disease such as cirrhosis or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh
Class C).

Note: A detailed assessment of Hepatitis B/C medical history and risk factors
must be done at screening for all patients. HBV DNA and HCV RNA PCR
testing are required at screening for all patients with a positive medical history
based on risk factors and/or confirmation of prior HBV/HCV infection. (see
Section 7.1.1 for additional details).

41

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

4

Randomization Procedures

4.1

Ethics

This study will be conducted in accordance with the ethical principles that have their
origin in the current Declaration of Helsinki and will be consistent with applicable US
regulatory requirements and International Conference on Harmonization Good
Clinical Practice (ICH GCP).
The study will be conducted in compliance with the protocol. The protocol and any
amendments and the patient informed consent will receive Institutional Review Board
(IRB) approval prior to initiation of the study.
Freely given written informed consent must be obtained from every patient or their
legally acceptable representative prior to clinical trial participation, including informed
consent for any screening procedures conducted to establish patient eligibility for the
trial.
Study personnel involved in conducting this trial will be qualified by education,
training, and experience to perform their respective task(s). This trial will not use the
services of investigators or study personnel where sanctions have been invoked or
where there has been scientific misconduct or fraud (e.g., loss of medical licensure,
debarment). Investigators are responsible for the conduct of the study at their study
site.

4.2

Regulatory Requirements

Before a site may enter patients, protocol-specific regulatory and other documents
must be submitted to PrECOG as noted in study materials. Detailed information
regarding document submission and control is provided to each site in separate study
materials.
Once all required documents are received, reviewed and approved by PrECOG or
their representative, a Study Reference Manual (SRM) will be forwarded to the site.
Any changes to site regulatory documents must be submitted by the investigator to
the responsible party in a timely manner. Initial study drug shipment will not occur
until the regulatory packet is complete. No patients will begin protocol therapy without
formal randomization as per the process below.

4.3

Patient Randomization

Patients must meet all of the eligibility requirements listed in Section 3 prior to
randomization. Treatment must begin ≤ 7 working days from randomization.
An eligibility checklist has been appended as an example to the protocol and a usable
version is available in separate study materials provided to the site. A confirmation of
eligibility assessment by the investigator/site will be performed during the
randomization process.
Information regarding stratification factors (performance status, measurable disease
and prior chemotherapy) must be available at the time of randomization.

42

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

Once it is determined that a patient meets all eligibility requirements, the patient will
be randomized to the study by site personnel using an electronic interactive web
registration (IWR) system. Full information regarding registration and randomization
procedures and guidelines can be found in the SRM provided to your site. All
correspondence regarding patient randomization must be kept in the study records.

43

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

5

Treatment Plan

5.1

Administration Schedule

Note: 1 cycle = 28 days.
Patients must begin treatment within 7 working days of randomization.
Disease evaluations will occur after every 12 weeks, +/- 1 week (which corresponds
to every 3 treatment cycles) and patients will be treated until disease progression,
unacceptable toxicity or for a total duration of 12 cycles (Induction Phase). Patients
with no evidence of progressive disease who remain on study after completing 12
cycles will be unblinded and proceed to the Continuation Phase. Patients in the
Continuation Phase should continue to receive fulvestrant alone (if originally
randomized to placebo) or in combination with everolimus (if originally randomized to
everolimus) at the same dose and schedule. Disease evaluations will continue to
occur after every 12 weeks (every 3 treatment cycles), +/- 1 week, and patients may
continue treatment until disease progression is documented or unacceptable toxicity.
All patients will be followed for 30 days for toxicity after the last dose of study therapy
(fulvestrant and/or everolimus/placebo) or until recovery from all toxicity (to ≤ grade 1)
attributed to study therapy, whichever is longer (or if >grade 1, event must be
permanent and stable).
See Sections 8.1 and 8.2 for information on study drug procurement, storage,
preparation, handling and destruction information.

5.2

Dosing and Administration
5.2.1

Fulvestrant (Arm A and Arm B)

Induction Phase:
Cycle 1 (28 day cycle)
Patients will receive fulvestrant 500 mg IM (two-250 mg injections each dose)
on day 1 and 15.
Note: Cycle 1 is the only time fulvestrant is given on day 15. If patient
previously received one cycle of fulvestrant (day 1 and day 15) prior to study
entry as permitted in Inclusion Criteria #8, patient should receive fulvestrant 500
mg on day 1 only.
Cycle 2, and thereafter (28 day cycles)
Patients will receive fulvestrant 500 mg IM (two-250 mg injections) on day 1 of
all subsequent cycles for a maximum of 12 cycles.
Continuation Phase:
Patients with no evidence of disease progression after completing 12 cycles are
unblinded and continue fulvestrant alone (if originally randomized to placebo) or in
combination with everolimus (if originally randomized to everolimus) at the same dose
and schedule until progression of disease or unacceptable toxicity.

44

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

Fulvestrant will be obtained from commercial pharmacy stock.

5.2.2

Everolimus or Placebo (Arm A and Arm B)

•

The study drug everolimus/placebo will be self-administered (by the patients
themselves). The local investigator will instruct the patient to take the study drug
exactly as specified in the protocol. Everolimus/placebo should be administered
orally once daily, preferably in the morning, at the same time every day with or
without food. Everolimus/placebo tablets should be swallowed whole with a glass
of water. The tablets must not be chewed or crushed. In cases where tablets
cannot be swallowed, the tablets should be disintegrated in water just prior to
being taken. Approximately 30 mL (2 tablespoons) of water should be put into a
glass. The tablets should then be added and the contents stirred gently (for a
maximum of 7 minutes) until the tablets are disintegrated. The contents should
then be drunk. If the patient vomits after taking the study drug, they should not
take another tablet that day. If the patient forgets to take the medication and
remembers by 10 PM, they may take the dose. Otherwise, skip that dose and
begin as usual the next day.

•

Everolimus/placebo will be administered orally as once daily dose of 10 mg (two5 mg tablets) continuously from study day 1 until progression of disease or
unacceptable toxicity for 12 cycles. See Section 5.5 regarding duration of therapy
(including guidelines for treatment beyond Cycle 12).

•

If vomiting occurs, no attempt should be made to replace the vomited dose.

•

All dosages prescribed and dispensed to the patient and all dose changes during
the study must be recorded.

•

PrECOG, or their designee, will be responsible for blinding, drug randomization,
and management of the electronic interactive web registration (IWR) system. Both
tablets will be blinded and identified by kit number only. The IWR system will
assign the proper kit to the patient based on the patient randomization. Conditions
for study drug will be described on the medication label.

•

Both everolimus and placebo will be provided by Novartis. Everolimus is
formulated as tablets for oral administration of 5 mg strength. Both placebo and
everolimus tablets are blister-packed under aluminum foil in units of 10 tablets per
blister card, which should be opened only at the time of administration as drug is
both hygroscopic and light-sensitive.

•

Dose modifications should be made prior to dose calculation at the beginning of
each cycle and reasons recorded in source documents and on appropriate case
report forms.

45

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

5.3

Dose Modifications and Toxicity Management
5.3.1

Dose Modifications General Guidelines for Everolimus/
Placebo

CTCAE term (AE description) and grade: The descriptions and grading scales found
in the revised NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE)
Version 4.0 will be utilized for AE reporting. All appropriate treatment areas should
have access to a copy of the CTCAE Version 4.0. A copy of the CTCAE Version 4.0
can be downloaded from the CTEP web site (http://ctep.cancer.gov).
All appropriate treatment areas should have access to a copy of the CTEP CTCAE
Version 4.0. (see Appendix E).
Dose modifications for all drugs will be made using the general guidelines below.
•

All dose reductions are permanent. Fulvestrant will not be dose reduced.

•

Regardless of the reason for holding any study drug treatment, the maximum
allowable length of treatment interruption is ≤ 3 weeks. If the delivery of any study
drug due to toxicity is delayed for more than 3 weeks, that drug should be
permanently discontinued.

•

No more than 2 dose reductions for everolimus/placebo will be allowed. Further
need for dose reduction will result in discontinuation of that drug.

•

If dose is delayed due to toxicity, labs/toxicity should be reevaluated at least
weekly until recovery to treatment levels, or as indicated in the dose modification
tables.

•

Patients who discontinue everolimus/placebo because of suspected everolimusassociated toxicity should continue treatment with fulvestrant alone until disease
progression.

•

In unusual circumstances where fulvestrant must be discontinued prior to disease
progression due to intolerable fulvestrant-associated toxicity, the Medical Monitor
should be contacted.

Table 5-0
Everolimus or Placebo Dose Level Modification Guidelines
Everolimus/Placebo

Fulvestrant

Starting dose

10 mg daily
(two- 5 mg tablets)

500 mg

Dose Level -1

5 mg daily

No reduction

Dose Level -2

5 mg every other day

No reduction

46

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

Table 5-1
Non-Hematological Criteria for Dose-Modification in Case of Suspected
Everolimus or Placebo Related Adverse Events and Re-Initiation of Everolimus
or Placebo Treatment
Adverse Event

Action

Non Hematological
Reactivation of HBV or HCV flare

Please refer to Table 5-4 and Table 5-5.

Non-Infectious Pneumonitis

Please refer to Table 5-6.

AST or ALT elevation

Maintain current dose level.

Grade 1 (>ULN - 3.0x ULN)
Grade 2 (>3.0 - 5.0x ULN)
AST or ALT elevation
Grade 3 (>5.0 - 20.0 ULN)*

Interrupt everolimus administration until resolution to ≤ grade 1
(or ≤ grade 2 if baseline values were within the range of grade
2). If resolution occurs ≤ 7 days, everolimus should be re-started
at the dose level prior to interruption.
If resolution takes >7 days, or if event recurs within 28 days,
hold everolimus until recovery to ≤ grade 1 or baseline grade/
value and reintroduce everolimus at one dose level lower, if
available.

AST or ALT elevation
Grade 4 (>20x ULN)*

Intolerable Grade 2 mucositis
(see Section 5.3.2.5)

Interrupt everolimus administration until resolution to ≤ grade 1
(or ≤ grade 2 if baseline values were within the range of grade
2). If resolution occurs ≤ 7 days, everolimus should be re-started
at one dose level lower. If resolution takes >7 days, discontinue
everolimus.
Interrupt everolimus administration until resolution to ≤ grade 1
or baseline grade/value.
If resolution occurs within ≤ 7 days, everolimus should be restarted at the dose level prior to interruption.
If resolution takes >7 days, or if event recurs within 28 days,
hold everolimus until recovery to ≤ grade 1 or baseline grade/
value and reintroduce everolimus at one dose level lower, if
available.
Patients will be withdrawn from the study if they fail to recover to
≤ grade 1 or baseline grade/value within 21 days.

Grade 3 AE, except:
hyperglycemia or
hypertriglyceridemia or
hypercholesterolemia
(see Section 5.3.2.7)

Interrupt everolimus administration until resolution to ≤ grade 1
or baseline grade/value.
Reintroduce everolimus at one dose level lower, if available.
Patients will be withdrawn from the study if they fail to recover to
≤ grade 1 or baseline grade/value within 21 days.

47

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014
Any other Grade 4

Hold everolimus until recovery to grade ≤ 1 or baseline value.
Reintroduce everolimus at one dose level lower, if available.

Grade 3 or 4 clinical liver failure
(asterixis or encephalopathy/
coma)

Discontinue everolimus.

Recurrence of intolerable Grade 2
mucositis or Grade 3 event after
dose reduction

Reduce dose to the next lower dose level, if available. The
lowest possible dose level of everolimus is 5 mg every other
day. Below this level, everolimus must be discontinued.

Recurrence of Grade 4 after
dose reduction

Discontinue everolimus.

Any non-hematologic toxicity
requiring
interruption
of
everolimus for >21 days

Discontinue everolimus.

* Should HCV flare be confirmed, the guidelines for flare must take precedence (Table 5-5).

Table 5-2
Hematological Criteria for Dose-Modification in Case of Suspected Everolimus
or Placebo Related Adverse Events and Re-Initiation of Everolimus or Placebo
Adverse Event

Action

Hematological
Grade 2 thrombocytopenia
9

No action.

(platelets <75, ≥ 50 x 10 /L)
Grade 3 thrombocytopenia

Interrupt everolimus until resolution to grade ≤1

(platelets <50, ≥ 25 x 10 /L)

If resolution occurs ≤ 7 days, reintroduce everolimus at the
dose level prior to interruption.

9

If resolution occurs >7 days, or event occurs within 28 days,
reintroduce everolimus at one dose level lower, if available.
Grade 4 thrombocytopenia
9

(platelets <25 x 10 /L)
Grade 3 neutropenia or anemia
9

(neutrophil <1, ≥ 0.5 x 10 /L)

Interrupt everolimus until recovery to grade ≤ 1. Then
reintroduce everolimus at one dose level lower, if available.
Interrupt everolimus until resolution to grade ≤1 or baseline
value
If AE resolution occurs ≤ 7 days, reintroduce everolimus at
the same dose level.
If AE resolution occurs >7 days, or event occurs within 28
days, reintroduce everolimus at one dose level lower, if
available.

48

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014
Grade 4 neutropenia or anemia

Interrupt everolimus until recovery to grade ≤ 1 or baseline
value. Reintroduce everolimus at one dose level lower, if
available.*

Febrile neutropenia

Interrupt everolimus until resolution to grade ≤ 1 (or baseline
value) and no fever. Reintroduce everolimus at one dose
level lower, if available.*

Recurrence of Grade 3 toxicity after
dose reduction

Reduce dose to the next lower dose level, if available. The
lowest possible dose level of everolimus is 5 mg every other
day. Below this level, everolimus must be discontinued.

*Recurrence of Grade 4 toxicity
(including febrile neutropenia) after
dose reduction

Discontinue everolimus.

*Any hematologic toxicity requiring
everolimus interruption for >21
days

Discontinue everolimus.

5.3.2

Common Adverse Events Associated with Everolimus

The data described below reflect exposure to everolimus (n= 274) and placebo
(n= 137) in a randomized Phase III study for the treatment of metastatic renal cell
carcinoma. In total, 165 patients were exposed to everolimus 10 mg/day for ≥ 4
months. The median age of patients was 61 years (range 27 to 85). The most
common adverse reactions (incidence ≥ 10%) were stomatitis, rash, fatigue, asthenia,
diarrhea, anorexia, nausea, mucosal inflammation, vomiting, cough, peripheral
edema, infections, dry skin, epistaxis, pruritus, and dyspnea. The most common
grade 3-4 adverse reactions (incidence ≥ 2%) were infections, stomatitis, fatigue, and
pneumonitis.
The median duration of blinded study treatment was 141 days (range 19 to 451) for
patients receiving everolimus and 60 days (range 21 to 295) for those receiving
placebo. The rates of treatment-emergent adverse reactions resulting in permanent
discontinuation were 7% and 0% for the everolimus and placebo treatment groups,
respectively. Most treatment-emergent adverse reactions were grade 1 or 2 in
severity. Grade 3 or 4 treatment-emergent adverse reactions were reported in 39%
versus 7% of patients receiving everolimus and placebo, respectively. Deaths due to
acute respiratory failure (0.7%), infection (0.7%), and acute renal failure (0.4%) were
observed on the everolimus arm.
Everolimus has immunosuppressive properties and may predispose patients to
bacterial, fungal, viral or protozoan infections, including infections with opportunistic
pathogens. Localized and systemic infections, including pneumonia, other bacterial
infections, invasive fungal infections, such as aspergillosis or candidiasis and viral
infections including reactivation of hepatitis B virus, have been described in patients
taking everolimus. Some of these infections have been severe (e.g. leading to
respiratory or hepatic failure) and occasionally have had a fatal outcome.

49

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

Physicians and patients should be aware of the increased risk of infection with
everolimus. Treat pre-existing infections prior to starting treatment with everolimus.
While taking everolimus, be vigilant for symptoms and signs of infection; if a diagnosis
of infection is made, institute appropriate treatment promptly and consider interruption
or discontinuation of everolimus. If a diagnosis of invasive systemic fungal infection is
made, discontinue everolimus and treat with appropriate antifungal therapy.
Reactivation of Hepatitis B (HBV) has been observed in patients with cancer
receiving chemotherapy.53 Sporadic cases of Hepatitis B reactivation have also been
seen in this setting with everolimus. Use of antivirals during anti-cancer therapy has
been shown to reduce the risk of Hepatitis B virus reactivation and associated
morbidity and mortality.54 A detailed assessment of Hepatitis B/C medical history and
risk factors must be done for all patients at screening, with testing performed prior to
the first dose of everolimus.
Hypersensitivity reactions manifested by symptoms including, but not limited to,
anaphylaxis, dyspnea, flushing, chest pain or angioedema (e.g. swelling of the
airways or tongue, with or without respiratory impairment) have been observed with
everolimus.
Elevations of serum creatinine, usually mild, have been reported in clinical trials.
Monitoring of renal function, including measurement of blood urea nitrogen (BUN) or
serum creatinine, is recommended prior to the start of everolimus therapy and
periodically thereafter.
Decreased hemoglobin, lymphocytes, platelets and neutrophils have been reported in
clinical trials. Monitoring of complete blood count is recommended prior to the start of
everolimus therapy and periodically thereafter.
The use of live vaccines and close contact with those who have received live
vaccines should be avoided during treatment with everolimus.
Hypophosphatemia, hypomagnesaemia, hyponatremia and hypocalcaemia have
been reported as serious adverse reactions. Electrolytes should be monitored in
patients treated with everolimus.
Table 5-1 and Table 5-2 provide general recommendations for the management of
patients, with suspected drug toxicities while on treatment with everolimus as singleagent therapy.
More detailed information regarding everolimus reported suspected toxicities and
individual cases are provided in the Investigator’s Brochure.
5.3.2.1

Management of Hepatitis Reactivation/Flare

In cancer patients with hepatitis B, whether carriers or in chronic state, use of
antivirals during anticancer therapy has been shown to reduce the risk of hepatitis B
virus (HBV) reactivation and associated HBV morbidity and mortality.54

50

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

5.3.2.2

Monitoring and
Reactivation

Prophylactic

Treatment

for

Hepatitis

B

Table 5-3 provides details of monitoring and prophylactic therapy according to the
baseline results of viral load and serologic markers testing.
Table 5-3
Action to be Taken for Positive Baseline Hepatitis B Results

Test

Result

Result

Result

Result

Result

HBV-DNA

+

+ or -

-

-

-

HBsAg

+ or -

+

-

-

-

HBsAb

+ or -

+ or -

+

+ or -

-

and no prior HBV
vaccination
HBcAb

+ or -

Recommendation

+ or -

+ or -

or + with prior
HBV vaccination
+

No prophylaxis

Prophylaxis treatment should be
started 1-2 weeks prior to first dose of
study drug

Monitor HBV-DNA approximately
every 3-4 weeks

No specific
action

Monitor HBV-DNA approximately
every 4-8 weeks

Antiviral prophylaxis therapy should continue for at least 4 weeks after last dose of
study drug.
For hepatitis B reactivation, definition and management guidelines see Table 5-4
Guidelines for Management of Hepatitis B.

51

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

Table 5-4
Guidelines for Management of Hepatitis B
HBV Reactivation (with or without clinical signs and symptoms)*
For patients with baseline
results:
Positive HBV-DNA

≤ baseline HBV-DNA levels

Positive HBsAg
-------------------------------------Reactivation is defined as:
Increase of 1 log in HBVDNA relative to baseline
HBV-DNA value OR new
appearance of measurable
HBV-DNA
For patients with baseline
results:
HBV-DNA

AND
Interrupt study drug administration until resolution:

OR

Negative
HBsAg

Treat: Start a second antiviral

and

If resolution occurs within ≤ 21 days, study drug should be restarted at one dose lower, if available. If the patient is already
receiving the lowest dose of study drug according to the protocol, the
patient should restart at the same dose after resolution. Both antiviral
therapies should continue at least 4 weeks after last dose of study
drug.
If resolution occurs >21 days, patients should discontinue study
drug but continue both antiviral therapies at least 4 weeks after last
dose of study drug.
Treat: Start first antiviral medication
AND
Interrupt study drug administration until resolution:
≤ baseline HBV-DNA levels

AND
Positive HBsAb (with no
prior history of vaccination
against HBV), OR positive
HBcAb
------------------------------------Reactivation is defined as:
New
appearance
measurable HBV-DNA

of

If resolution occurs within ≤ 21 days, study drug should be restarted at one dose lower, if available. If the patient is already
receiving the lowest dose of study drug according to the protocol, the
patient should restart at the same dose after resolution. Antiviral
therapy should continue at least 4 weeks after last dose of study
drug.
If resolution occurs >21 days, patients should discontinue study
drug but continue antiviral therapy at least 4 weeks after last dose of
study drug.

* All reactivations of hepatitis B are to be recorded as grade 3 (CTEP CTCAE Version
4.0 Metabolic Laboratory/Other: Viral Reactivation), unless considered life threatening
by the investigator; in which case they should be recorded as grade 4 (CTEP CTCAE
Version 4.0 Metabolic Laboratory/Other: Viral Reactivation).

5.3.2.3

Monitoring for Hepatitis C Flare

The following two categories of patients should be monitored every 4-8 weeks for
HCV reactivation:
•

Patients with detectable HCV RNA-PCR test at baseline.
52

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

•

Patients known to have a history of HCV infection, despite a negative viral load
test at baseline (including those that were treated and are considered ‘cured’).

For definition of hepatitis C flare and the management guidelines, see Table 5-5
Guidelines for Management of Hepatitis C.
Table 5-5
Guidelines for Management of Hepatitis C
HCV Flare*
For patients with baseline results:

Discontinue study drug.

Detectable HCV-RNA:
HCV Flare is defined as:
˃2 log10 IU/mL increase in HCV-RNA
AND
ALT elevation ˃5x ULN or 3x baseline level,
whichever is higher
Discontinue study drug.

For patients with baseline results:
Knowledge of past hepatitis C infection
with no detectable HCV-RNA:
HCV Flare is defined as:
New appearance of detectable HCV-RNA
AND
ALT elevation ˃5x ULN or 3x baseline level,
whichever is higher

* All flares of hepatitis C are to be recorded as grade 3 (CTEP CTCAE Version 4.0.
Metabolic Laboratory/Other: Viral Flare), unless considered life threatening by the
investigator; in which case they should be recorded as grade 4 (CTEP CTCAE
Version 4.0 Metabolic Laboratory/Other: Viral Flare).

5.3.2.4

Management of Skin Toxicity

For patients with grade 1 toxicity, no specific supportive care is usually needed or
indicated. Rash must be reported as an AE. Patients with grade 2 or higher toxicity
may be treated with the following suggested supportive measures at the discretion of
the investigator: oral minocycline, topical tetracycline, topical clindamycin, topical
silver sulfadiazine, diphenhydramine, oral prednisolone (short course), topical
corticosteroids, or pimecrolimus.

53

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

5.3.2.5

Management of Stomatitis/Oral Mucositis/Mouth Ulcers

Patients with a clinical history of stomatitis/mucositis/mouth ulcers and those with
gastrointestinal morbidity associated with mouth/dental infections, irritation of
esophageal mucosa e.g. gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) and pre-existing
stomatitis/mucositis must be monitored even more closely. Patients should be
instructed to report the first onset of buccal mucosa irritation/reddening to their study
physician immediately.
Suggested prophylactic treatment for prevention of stomatitis/mucositis:
a) Use 15 mL baking soda/salt mouth rinse QID (swish and spit). Mix 1/3 teaspoon
baking soda and 1/3 teaspoon of salt in 1 quart of water (refrigeration is not
needed); do not eat or drink anything for 10 minutes after rinsing.
b) Use 10 mL prescribed “miracle mouth wash’’ QID (swish and spit). For 16-ounce
recipe: 320 mL Benadryl solution, 2 g tetracycline powder, 80 mg hydrocortisone,
and 40 mL nystatin suspension, quantity sufficient with water. Wait 10-15 minutes
after the baking soda/salt rinse before using “miracle mouthwash’’.55
Stomatitis/oral mucositis/mouth ulcers due to everolimus should be treated using local
supportive care. Please note that investigators in earlier trials have described the oral
toxicities associated with everolimus as mouth ulcers, rather than mucositis or
stomatitis. If your examination reveals mouth ulcers rather than a more general
inflammation of the mouth, please classify the adverse event as such. Please follow
the paradigm below for treatment of stomatitis/oral mucositis/mouth ulcers:
1. For mild toxicity (Grade 1), use conservative measures as noted above, baking
soda/salt mouth rinse and “miracle mouth wash”.
2. For more severe toxicity (Grade 2 in which case patients have pain but are able to
maintain adequate oral alimentation, or Grade 3 in which case patients cannot
maintain adequate oral alimentation), the suggested treatments are:
In addition to baking soda/salt mouth rinse and “miracle mouth wash”
above, topical analgesic mouth treatments (e.g., local anesthetics such as
benzocaine, butyl aminobenzoate, tetracaine hydrochloride, menthol, or phenol)
with or without topical corticosteroids, such as triamcinolone oral paste 0.1%
(Kenalog in Orabase®) or Periogard® oral rinse.
3. Agents containing hydrogen peroxide, iodine, and thyme derivatives may tend to
worsen mouth ulcers. It is preferable to avoid these agents. Alcohol–containing
rinses and tooth paste with sodium lauryl sulfate should also be avoided. Avoid
acidic, spicy, hard, or crunchy foods, and consume foods that are tepid rather
than hot.55
4. Antifungal agents must be avoided unless a fungal infection is diagnosed. In
particular, systemic imidazole antifungal agents (ketoconazole, fluconazole,
itraconazole, etc.) should be avoided in all patients due to their strong inhibition of
everolimus metabolism, thereby leading to higher everolimus exposures.
Therefore, topical antifungal agents are preferred if an infection is diagnosed.
Similarly, antiviral agents such as acyclovir should be avoided unless a viral
infection is diagnosed.
Note: Stomatitis/oral mucositis should be appropriately graded using the functional
grading given on the CTEP CTCAE Version 4.0.

54

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

5.3.2.6

Management of Diarrhea

Appearance of grade 1-2 diarrhea attributed to study drug toxicity may be treated with
supportive care such as loperamide, initiated at the earliest onset (for example 4 mg
orally followed by 2 mg orally every 2 hours until resolution of diarrhea).
5.3.2.7

Management of Hyperlipidemia and Hyperglycemia

Treatment of hyperlipidemia should take into account the pre-treatment status and
dietary habits. Grade 2 or higher hypercholesterolemia (>300 mg/dL or 7.75 mmol/L)
or grade 2 hypertriglyceridemia or higher (>2.5x upper normal limit) should be treated
with a 3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl (HMG)-CoA reductase inhibitor (e.g. atorvastatin,
pravastatin, fluvastatin) or appropriate triglyceride-lowering medication, in addition to
diet.
Note: Concomitant therapy with fibrates and an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor is
associated with an increased risk of a rare but serious skeletal muscle toxicity
manifested by rhabdomyolysis, markedly elevated creatine phosphokinase (CPK)
levels and myoglobinuria, acute renal failure and sometimes death. The risk versus
benefit of using this therapy should be determined for individual patients based on
their risk of cardiovascular complications of hyperlipidemia.
Hyperglycemia has been reported in clinical trials. Monitoring of fasting serum
glucose is recommended prior to the start of everolimus therapy and periodically
thereafter. Optimal glycemic control should be achieved before starting trial therapy.
5.3.2.8

Management of Non-Infectious Pneumonitis

Non-infectious pneumonitis is a class effect of rapamycin derivatives. Cases of noninfectious pneumonitis (including interstitial lung disease) have also been described in
patients taking everolimus. Some of these have been severe and on rare occasions,
a fatal outcome was observed.
A diagnosis of non-infectious pneumonitis should be considered in patients
presenting with non-specific respiratory signs and symptoms such as hypoxia, pleural
effusion, cough or dyspnea, and in whom infectious, neoplastic and other nonmedicinal causes have been excluded by means of appropriate investigations.
Patients should be advised to report promptly any new or worsening respiratory
symptoms.
Patients who develop radiological changes suggestive of non-infectious pneumonitis
and have few or no symptoms may continue everolimus therapy without dose
alteration. If symptoms are moderate (Grade 2), consideration should be given to
interruption of therapy until symptoms improve. The use of corticosteroids may be
indicated. Everolimus may be reintroduced at a reduced dose until recovery to Grade
1 or better.
For cases where symptoms of non-infectious pneumonitis are severe (Grade 3),
everolimus therapy should be discontinued and the use of corticosteroids may be
indicated until clinical symptoms resolve. Therapy with everolimus may be re-initiated
at a reduced dose depending on the individual clinical circumstances.

55

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

For non-infectious pneumonitis definition and management guidelines, see Table 5-6
Management of Non-Infectious Pneumonitis.
Table 5-6
Management of Non-Infectious Pneumonitis
Worst Grade
Pneumonitis

Management of
Pneumonitis

Required Investigations

therapy

Everolimus Dose
Adjustment

Grade 1

CT scans with lung windows.

No specific
required

is

No dose adjustment required.
Initiate appropriate monitoring.

Grade 2

CT scan with lung windows.
Consider pulmonary function
testing includes: spirometry,
DLCO, and room air O2
saturation at rest. Consider a
bronchoscopy
with
biopsy
and/or BAL. Monitoring at each
visit until return to ≤ grade 1.
Return to initial monitoring
frequency if no recurrence.

Symptomatic only.
Consider
corticosteroids
and/or other supportive
therapy if symptoms are
troublesome.

Rule out infection and consider
interruption of everolimus until
symptoms improve to Grade ≤
1.
Re-initiate everolimus at one
dose level lower.
Discontinue
everolimus
if
failure to recover within ≤ 21
days.

Grade 3

CT scan with lung windows and
pulmonary
function
testing
includes: spirometry, DLCO,
and room air O2 saturation at
rest. Monitoring at each visit
until return to ≤ grade 1. Return
to initial monitoring frequency if
no recurrence. Bronchoscopy
with biopsy and/or BAL is
recommended.

Consider corticosteroids if
infective origin is ruled out.
Taper
as
medically
indicated.

Rule out infection and interrupt
everolimus until symptoms
improve to Grade ≤ 1.
Consider re-initiating everolimus at one dose level lower.
Discontinue
everolimus
if
failure to recover within ≤ 21
days.

Grade 4

CT scan with lung windows and
required pulmonary function
testing, if possible, includes:
spirometry, DLCO, and room air
O2 saturation at rest. Monitoring
at each visit until return to ≤
grade 1. Return to initial
monitoring frequency if no
recurrence. Bronchoscopy with
biopsy
and/or
BAL
is
recommended if possible.

Consider corticosteroids if
infective origin is ruled out.
Taper
as
medically
indicated.

Rule
out
infection
discontinue everolimus.

All interruptions or changes to study drug administration must be recorded.
It will be documented whether or not each patient completed the clinical study. If for
any patient either study treatment or observations were discontinued the reason will
be recorded.

5.3.3

Concomitant Therapies

Patients will be instructed not to take any additional medications (including over-thecounter products) during the course of the study without prior consultation with the
local investigator. At each visit, the investigator will ask the patient about any new
medications he/she is or has taken after the start of the study drug.

56

and

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

Concomitant medications/significant non-drug therapies taken ≤ 28 days prior
to start and after start of study drug, including physical therapy and blood
transfusions, should be reviewed.

5.3.4

Prohibited Therapies and Restrictions

The following restrictions apply during the entire duration of the study:
•

No other investigational therapy should be given to patients.

•

No anticancer agents other than the study medication should be given to patients,
with the following exceptions:
o
o

Bisphosphonates, Zometa, or Xgeva for bone metastases
a GnRH analog is permitted if the patient had progressive disease on a GnRH
analog plus a SERM or an AI; the GnRH analog may continue but the SERM
or AI must be discontinued.

•

If any other anticancer agents are required for a patient then the patient must first
be withdrawn from the study.

•

Concurrent radiation therapy is prohibited, however palliative radiotherapy may be
considered on a case by case basis after discussion with the Study Chair.

•

Patients must not be receiving chronic, systemic treatment with corticosteroids or
another immunosuppressive agent greater than or equal to 5 mg prednisone or its
equivalent daily. Topical or inhaled corticosteroids are allowed.

•

The use of live vaccines and close contact with those who have received live
vaccines should be avoided during treatment with everolimus. Examples of live
vaccines include intranasal influenza, measles, mumps, rubella, oral polio, BCG,
yellow fever, varicella and TY21a typhoid vaccines.

•

It is highly recommended that patients with positive HBV-DNA or HBsAg are
treated prophylactically with an antiviral for 1-2 weeks prior to receiving study drug
(see Table 5-3).

•

The antiviral treatment should continue throughout the entire study period and for
at least 4 weeks after the last dose of study drug.

•

Patients on antiviral prophylaxis treatment or positive HBV antibodies should be
tested for HBV-DNA according to study visit schedule.

•

Oral contraceptives in preclinical and clinical data have shown everolimus to have
CYP3A4 inhibitory activity rather than induction activity, induction of metabolism
of contraceptive hormones by everolimus is unlikely. Consequently, administration
of everolimus should not reduce the efficacy of oral contraceptives.

•

Grapefruit and other citrus juices affect P450 and PgP activity. Concomitant use
should be avoided.

57

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

5.3.5
5.3.5.1

Administration of Everolimus and CYP3A4 Inhibitors/
Inducers

Inhibitors of CYP3A4 and/or PgP

Everolimus is metabolized by CYP3A4 in the liver and to some extent in the intestinal
wall.
Therefore, the following are recommended:
Co-administration with strong inhibitors of CYP3A4 (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole,
ritonavir) or P-glycoprotein (PgP) should be avoided.
Co-administration with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., erythromycin, fluconazole)
or PgP inhibitors should be used with caution. If a patient requires co-administration
of moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors or PgP inhibitors, reduce the dose of everolimus to 5
mg every other day. Additional dose reductions to every other day may be required to
manage toxicities. If the inhibitor is discontinued, the everolimus dose should be
returned to the dose used prior to initiation of the moderate CYP3A4/PgP inhibitor
after a washout period of 2-3 days.
Grapefruit and other citrus juices affect P450 and PgP activity. Concomitant use
should be avoided.
Refer to Appendix C Table 15-0 for list of medications known to induce/inhibit
CYP3A4 and Table 15-1 for a list of medications known to inhibit PgP.
5.3.5.2

Inducers of CYP3A4 and/or PgP

Avoid the use of strong CYP3A4 inducers (e.g., phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin,
rifabutin, phenobarbital, St. John’s Wort). If a patient requires co-administration of
strong CYP3A4 inducers, an increase in the dose of everolimus up to twice the
currently used daily dose should be considered, 5 mg increments. Enzyme induction
usually occurs within 7-10 days; therefore everolimus dose should be increased by
one increment 7 days after the start of the inducer therapy. If no safety concerns are
seen within the next 7 days, the dose can be increased again one additional
increment up to a maximum of twice the daily dose used prior to initiation of the
strong CYP3A4 inducer. The choice to adjust the dose of everolimus in a patient
requiring co-administration of strong CYP3A4 inducers will be done at the discretion
of the treating investigator.
This dose adjustment of everolimus is intended to achieve similar AUC to the range
observed without inducers. However, there are no clinical data with this dose
adjustment in patients receiving strong CYP3A4 inducers. If the strong inducer is
discontinued the everolimus dose should be returned to the dose used prior to
initiation of the strong CYP3A4/PgP inducer. Refer to Appendix C Table 15-0 for list
of medications known to induce CYP3A4 and Table 15-1 for a list of medications
known to induce PgP.
Oral anticoagulants such as warfarin are CYP2C9 substrates and, as such, no
interaction with everolimus is expected. However, drug-drug interaction studies
between macrolide antibiotics and warfarin have produced mixed outcomes and the
disparity in these findings has led to the conclusion that multiple factors may alter the

58

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

clearance of warfarin. The co-administration of everolimus and oral anticoagulants is
possible but should be subject to verification of coagulation (INR) once steady state is
reached (after one week’s treatment).
A comprehensive list of cytochrome P450 isoenzymes and CYP3A4 inhibitors,
inducers, and substrates can be found at:
http://medicine.iupui.edu/clinpharm/ddis/table.aspx. This
revised and should be checked frequently for updates.

5.4

website

is

continually

Supportive Care

All supportive measures consistent with optimal patient care will be given throughout
the study.
The clinical tolerance of the patient, the overall tumor response, and the medical
judgment of the investigator will determine if it is in the patient’s best interest to
continue or discontinue treatment. If treatment is discontinued due to any toxicity, the
patient must be followed to monitor duration of toxicity, response and time to
progression or survival and initiation of any new systemic therapy.

5.5

Duration of Therapy

CR, PR, or SD patients will continue therapy per their induction arm randomized
assignments until evidence of progressive disease, unacceptable toxicity occurs, or
for a total of 12 cycles (Induction Phase). Patients with no evidence of progressive
disease who remain on study after completing 12 cycles will be unblinded and
proceed to the Continuation Phase. Patients in the Continuation Phase should
continue to receive fulvestrant alone (if originally randomized to placebo) or in
combination with everolimus (if originally randomized to everolimus) at the same dose
and schedule until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
Protocol therapy will be discontinued for progressive disease at any time. Patients are
free to halt therapy at their request. Treatment may be discontinued if intercurrent comorbidities occur, which, in the opinion of the treating physician, would preclude safe
administration of study drugs.
Patients who discontinue everolimus/placebo because of suspected everolimusassociated toxicity should continue treatment with fulvestrant alone until disease
progression. In unusual circumstances where fulvestrant must be discontinued prior
to disease progression due to intolerable fulvestrant-associated toxicity, the medical
monitor should be contacted. All patients who have discontinued protocol therapy will
be followed for survival and for progression if protocol therapy was discontinued
because of toxicity or for other reasons. All surviving patients who have discontinued
induction protocol therapy (fulvestrant and everolimus/placebo) for any reason will be
followed for 30 days for study drug related (fulvestrant and/or everolimus/placebo)
toxicities to ≤ grade 1 (or if >grade 1, event must be permanent and stable).

59

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

5.6

Withdrawal of Patients from Study

Patients MUST be discontinued from study therapy AND be withdrawn from the study
for the following reasons:
•

Withdrawal of the patient’s consent (patient’s decision to withdraw for any reason)

•

Termination of the study by PrECOG

•

Any clinical adverse event, laboratory abnormality or intercurrent illness which, in
the opinion of the investigator, indicates that continued participation in the study is
not in the best interest of the subject

•

Inability to comply with protocol

•

Discretion of the investigator

•

Disease progression (patient will continued to be followed for survival)

All subjects who discontinue treatment should comply with protocol specified followup procedures as outlined in Section 7.1.5.
If a subject is withdrawn before completing the study, the reason for withdrawal must
be entered on the appropriate case report form.

60

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

6

Measurement of Effect

6.1

Antitumor Effect- Solid Tumors

For the purposes of this study, patients should be re-evaluated for response every 12
weeks, +/- 1 week. All baseline evaluations should be performed as closely as
possible to the beginning of treatment and never more than four weeks before
randomization.
Response and progression will be evaluated in this study using the new international
criteria proposed by the revised Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors
(RECIST) guideline (Version 1.1).56 Changes in the largest diameter (unidimensional
measurement) of the tumor lesions and the shortest diameter in the case of malignant
lymph nodes are used in the RECIST criteria.

6.1.1

Definitions

Evaluable for toxicity: All patients will be evaluable for toxicity from the time of their
first treatment with fulvestrant and everolimus/placebo. All patients will be followed for
30 days for toxicity after the last dose of study therapy (fulvestrant and/or
everolimus/placebo) or until recovery from all toxicity (to ≤ grade 1) attributed to study
therapy, whichever is longer (or if >grade 1, event must be permanent and stable).
Evaluable for objective response: Only those patients who have measurable disease
present at baseline, have received at least one cycle of therapy, and have had their
disease re-evaluated will be considered evaluable for response. These patients will
have their response classified according to the definitions stated below. (Note:
Patients who exhibit objective disease progression prior to the end of Cycle 1 will also
be considered evaluable.)
Evaluable non-target disease response: Patients who have lesions present at
baseline that are evaluable but do not meet the definitions of measurable disease,
have received at least one cycle of therapy, and have had their disease re-evaluated
will be considered evaluable for non-target disease. The response assessment is
based on the presence, absence, or unequivocal progression of the lesions.

6.1.2

Disease Parameters

Measurable lesions: are defined as those that can be accurately measured in at least
one dimension (longest diameter in the plane of measurement) is to be recorded with
a minimum size of:
•

≥ 20 mm by chest x-ray (if clearly defined and surrounded by aerated lung)

•

≥ 10 mm with CT scan (irrespective of scanner type) and MRI (no less than
double the slice thickness and a minimum of 10 mm)

•

≥ 10 mm with calipers by clinical exam when superficial

All tumor measurements must be recorded in millimeters (or decimal fractions of
centimeters).

61

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

Note: Tumor lesions that are situated in a previously irradiated area, or in an area
subjected to other loco-regional therapy, are usually not considered measurable
unless there has been demonstrated progression in the lesion.
Malignant lymph nodes: to be considered pathologically enlarged and measurable, a
lymph node must be ≥ 15 mm in short axis (perpendicular to longest diameter) when
assessed by CT scan (CT scan slice thickness recommended to be no greater than 5
mm). At baseline and in follow-up, only the short axis will be measured and followed.
Non-measurable lesions: all other lesions (or sites of disease), including small lesions
(longest diameter <10 mm or pathological lymph nodes with ≥ 10 to <15 mm short
axis), are considered non-measurable disease. Leptomeningeal disease, ascites,
pleural/pericardial effusions, lymphangitis cutis/pulmonitis, inflammatory breast
disease, and abdominal masses/organomegaly (not followed by CT or MRI), are
considered as non-measurable.
Note: Cystic lesions that meet the criteria for radiographically defined simple cysts
should not be considered as malignant lesions (neither measurable nor nonmeasurable) since they are, by definition, simple cysts.
‘Cystic lesions’ thought to represent cystic metastases can be considered as
measurable lesions, if they meet the definition of measurability described above.
However, if non-cystic lesions are present in the same patient, these are preferred for
selection as target lesions.
Lytic bone lesions, with an identifiable soft tissue component, evaluated by CT or
MRI, can be considered as measurable lesions if the soft tissue component otherwise
meets the definition of measurability noted above. Blastic bone lesions are nonmeasurable.

6.1.3

Methods for Evaluation of Measurable Disease

All measurements should be taken and recorded in metric notation using a ruler or
calipers. All baseline evaluations should be performed as closely as possible to the
beginning of treatment and never more than 4 weeks before randomization.
The same method of assessment and the same technique should be used to
characterize each identified and reported lesion at baseline and during follow-up.
Imaging-based evaluation is preferred to evaluation by clinical examination unless the
lesion(s) being followed cannot be imaged but are assessable by clinical exam.
Clinical lesions: Clinical lesions will only be considered measurable when they are
superficial (e.g., skin nodules and palpable lymph nodes) and ≥ 10 mm diameter as
assessed using calipers (e.g., skin nodules). In the case of skin lesions,
documentation by color photography, including a ruler to estimate the size of the
lesion, is recommended.
Chest x-ray: Lesions on chest x-ray are acceptable as measurable lesions when they
are clearly defined and surrounded by aerated lung. However, CT is preferable.

62

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

Conventional CT and MRI: This guideline has defined measurability of lesions on CT
scan based on the assumption that CT slice thickness is 5 mm or less. If CT scans
have slice thickness greater than 5 mm, the minimum size for a measurable lesion
should be twice the slice thickness. MRI is also acceptable in certain situations (e.g.
for body scans).
Use of MRI remains a complex issue. MRI has excellent contrast, spatial, and
temporal resolution; however, there are many image acquisition variables involved in
MRI, which greatly impact image quality, lesion conspicuity, and measurement.
Furthermore, the availability of MRI is variable globally. As with CT, if an MRI is
performed, the technical specifications of the scanning sequences used should be
optimized for the evaluation of the type and site of disease. Furthermore, as with CT,
the modality used at follow-up should be the same as was used at baseline and the
lesions should be measured/assessed on the same pulse sequence. It is beyond the
scope of the RECIST guidelines to prescribe specific MRI pulse sequence
parameters for all scanners, body parts, and diseases. Ideally, the same type of
scanner should be used and the image acquisition protocol should be followed as
closely as possible to prior scans. Body scans should be performed with breath-hold
scanning techniques, if possible.
PET-CT: At present, the low dose or attenuation correction CT portion of a combined
PET-CT is not always of optimal diagnostic CT quality for use with RECIST
measurements. However, if the site can document that the CT performed as part of a
PET-CT is of identical diagnostic quality to a diagnostic CT (with IV and oral contrast),
then the CT portion of the PET-CT can be used for RECIST measurements and can
be used interchangeably with conventional CT in accurately measuring cancer
lesions over time. Note, however, that the PET portion of the CT introduces additional
data which may bias an investigator if it is not routinely or serially performed.
Ultrasound: Ultrasound is not useful in assessment of lesion size and should not be
used as a method of measurement. Ultrasound examinations cannot be reproduced
in their entirety for independent review at a later date and, because they are operator
dependent, it cannot be guaranteed that the same technique and measurements will
be taken from one assessment to the next. If new lesions are identified by ultrasound
in the course of the study, confirmation by CT or MRI is advised. If there is concern
about radiation exposure at CT, MRI may be used instead of CT in selected
instances.
Endoscopy, Laparoscopy: The utilization of these techniques for objective tumor
evaluation is not advised. However, such techniques may be useful to confirm
complete pathological response when biopsies are obtained or to determine relapse
in trials where recurrence following complete response (CR) or surgical resection is
an endpoint.
Tumor markers: Tumor markers alone cannot be used to assess response. If markers
are initially above the upper normal limit, they must normalize for a patient to be
considered in complete clinical response. Specific guidelines for both CA-125
response (in recurrent ovarian cancer) and PSA response (in recurrent prostate
cancer) have been published.57-59 In addition, the Gynecologic Cancer Intergroup has
developed CA-125 progression criteria which are to be integrated with objective
tumor assessment for use in first-line trials in ovarian cancer.60
63

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

Cytology, Histology: These techniques can be used to differentiate between partial
responses (PR) and complete responses (CR) in rare cases (e.g., residual lesions in
tumor types, such as germ cell tumors, where known residual benign tumors can
remain).
The cytological confirmation of the neoplastic origin of any effusion that appears or
worsens during treatment when the measurable tumor has met criteria for response
or stable disease is mandatory to differentiate between response or stable disease
(an effusion may be a side effect of the treatment) and progressive disease.
FDG-PET: While FDG-PET response assessments need additional study, it is
sometimes reasonable to incorporate the use of FDG-PET scanning to complement
CT scanning in assessment of progression (particularly possible 'new' disease). New
lesions on the basis of FDG-PET imaging can be identified according to the following
algorithm:
•
•

•

Negative FDG-PET at baseline, with a positive FDG-PET at follow-up is a sign of
PD based on a new lesion.
No FDG-PET at baseline and a positive FDG-PET at follow-up:
o If the positive FDG-PET at follow-up corresponds to a new site of disease
confirmed by CT, this is PD.
o If the positive FDG-PET at follow-up is not confirmed as a new site of disease
on CT, additional follow-up CT scans are needed to determine if there is truly
progression occurring at that site (if so, the date of PD will be the date of the
initial abnormal FDG-PET scan).
o If the positive FDG-PET at follow-up corresponds to a pre-existing site of
disease on CT that is not progressing on the basis of the anatomic images,
this is not PD.
FDG-PET may be used to upgrade a response to a CR in a manner similar to a
biopsy in cases where a residual radiographic abnormality is thought to represent
fibrosis or scarring. The use of FDG-PET in this circumstance should be
prospectively described in the protocol and supported by disease-specific medical
literature for the indication. However, it must be acknowledged that both
approaches may lead to false positive CR due to limitations of FDG-PET and
biopsy resolution/sensitivity.

Note: A ‘positive’ FDG-PET scan lesion means one which is FDG avid with an uptake
greater than twice that of the surrounding tissue on the attenuation corrected image.

6.1.4
6.1.4.1

Response Criteria

Evaluation of Target Lesions

All measurable lesions up to a maximum of 2 lesions per organ and five lesions in
total, representative of all involved organs, should be identified as target lesions and
recorded and measured at baseline. Target lesions should be selected on the basis
of their size (those with the longest diameters), be representative of all involved
organs, but in addition should be those that lend themselves to reproducible repeated
measurements. It may be the case that, on occasion, the largest lesion does not lend
itself to reproducible measurement in which circumstance the next largest lesion
which can be measured reproducibly should be selected.

64

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

The sum of the diameters (longest for non-nodal lesions, short axis for nodal lesions)
for all target lesions will be calculated and reported as the baseline sum diameters. If
lymph nodes are to be included in the sum, then only the short axis is added into the
sum. The baseline sum of the diameters will be used as reference to further
characterize any objective tumor regression in the measurable dimension of the
disease.
Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological
lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to <10
mm.
Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target
lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters.
Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of
target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the
baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of
20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm over the
nadir. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered
progression).
Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient
increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on
study. (Note: a change of 20% or more that does not increase the sum of the
diameters by 5 mm or more is coded as stable disease).
6.1.4.2

Evaluation of Non-Target Lesions

All other lesions or sites of disease including any measurable lesions over and above
the 5 target lesions should be identified as non-target lesions and should also be
recorded at baseline. Measurements of these lesions are not required, but the
presence or absence of unequivocal progression of each should be noted throughout
follow-up.
Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all non-target lesions and normalization
of tumor marker level. All lymph nodes must be non-pathological in size (<10 mm
short axis).
Note: If tumor markers are initially above the upper normal limit, they must normalize
for a patient to be considered in complete clinical response.
Non-CR/Non-PD: Persistence of one or more non-target
maintenance of tumor marker level above the normal limits.

lesion(s)

and/or

Progressive Disease (PD): Appearance of one or more new lesions and/or
unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. Unequivocal progression
should not normally trump target lesion status. It must be representative of overall
disease status change, not a single lesion increase.
When the patient also has measurable disease, there must be an overall level of
substantial worsening in non-target disease such that, even in the presence of SD or
PR in target disease, the overall tumor burden has increased sufficiently to merit
discontinuation of therapy. A modest “increase” in the size of one or more non-target
lesions is usually not sufficient to qualify for unequivocal progression status. The
65

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

designation of overall progression solely on the basis of change in non-target disease
in the face of SD or PR of target disease will therefore be extremely rare.
When the patient only has non-measurable disease, the increase in overall disease
burden should be comparable in magnitude to the increase that would be required to
declare PD for measurable disease: i.e., an increase in tumor burden from “trace” to
“large”, an increase in nodal disease from “localized” to “widespread”, or an increase
sufficient to require a change in therapy.
Although a clear progression of “non-target” lesions only is exceptional, the opinion of
the treating physician should prevail in such circumstances, and the progression
status should be confirmed at a later time by the review panel (or Principal
Investigator).
6.1.4.3

Evaluation of New Lesions

The appearance of new lesions constitutes Progressive Disease (PD).
6.1.4.4

Evaluation of Patient’s Best Overall Response

The best overall response is the best response recorded from the start of the
treatment until disease progression/recurrence (taking as reference for progressive
disease the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started). The
patient's best response assignment will depend on the achievement of both
measurement and confirmation criteria.

66

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

Table 6-0
Patients with Measurable Disease (e.g., Target Disease)
Target
Lesions

Non-Target
Lesions

New
Lesions

Overall
Response

Best Overall Response when
Confirmation is Required*

CR

CR

No

CR

Confirmation not required

CR

Non-CR/NonPD

No

PR

CR

Not Evaluated

No

PR

PR

Non-CR/NonPD/Not
Evaluated

No

PR

SD

Non-CR/NonPD/Not
Evaluated

No

SD

PD

Any

Yes or No

PD

Any

PD**

Yes or No

PD

Any

Any

Yes

PD

Confirmation not required

Confirmation not required

No prior SD, PR or CR

*See RECIST 1.1 manuscript for further details on what is evidence of a new lesion.
**In exceptional circumstances, unequivocal progression in non-target lesions may be accepted as
disease progression.
Note:

Patients with a global deterioration of health status requiring discontinuation of treatment
without objective evidence of disease progression at that time should be reported as
“symptomatic deterioration”. Every effort should be made to document the objective
progression even after discontinuation of treatment.

Table 6-1
Patients with Non-Measurable Disease (e.g., Non-Target Disease)
Non-Target Lesions

New Lesions

Overall Response

CR

No

CR

Non-CR/Non-PD

No

Non-CR/Non-PD*

Not all evaluated

No

Not Evaluated

Unequivocal PD

Yes or No

PD

Any

Yes

PD

*‘Non-CR/Non-PD’ is preferred over ‘stable disease’ for non-target disease since SD is increasingly
used as an endpoint for assessment of efficacy in some trials so to assign this category when no
lesions can be measured is not advised.

67

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

6.1.5

Duration of Response

Duration of overall response: The duration of overall response is measured from the
time measurement criteria are met for CR or PR (whichever is first recorded) until the
first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented (taking as
reference for PD the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started).
The duration of overall CR is measured from the time measurement criteria are first
met for CR until the first date that progressive disease is objectively documented.
Duration of stable disease: Stable disease is measured from the start of the treatment
until the criteria for progression are met, taking as reference the smallest
measurements recorded since the treatment started, including the baseline
measurements.

6.1.6

Progression-Free Survival

PFS is defined as the duration of time from time of randomization to time of
progression or death, whichever occurs first. A subject who has neither progressed
nor died will be censored on the date of last tumor assessment.

68

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

7

Study Parameters

TREATMENT MUST BEGIN ≤ 7 WORKING DAYS FROM RANDOMIZATION
Induction Phase (fulvestrant + everolimus or placebo for a maximum of 12 cycles)
Procedure

Pre-Study

Cycle 1

Cycle 1

Day 1*

Day 15

Day 1 Each
Subsequent
Cycle*

Every 12
weeks

End of
Induction
Phase

Continuation

<OR>

progression or

End of
Treatment

unacceptable

Phase
(until

toxicity)

Section 5.6^

X

Informed Consent

X

Medical History & Assessment of Baseline
Signs and Symptoms

X

Physical Exam

X

a

X

a

Vital Signs (Blood Pressure, Heart Rate,
Temperature) and Weight
ECOG Performance Status

Follow-Up Off
o
Therapy
(every 3
months for total
of 3 yrs from
date of
randomization)

a

Eligibility Assessment

Concomitant Meds (see Appendix C)

£

a

X

a

X
(includes Ht)
a

X

b

X

X

c

X

b

X

X

c

X

X

X

b

X

X

c

X

b

X

X

c

X

X

c

X

j

X

X

i

X

X

b

Adverse Events Assessments

X

X

a,i

i

Imaging Scans

X

X

PT with INR

X

Urinalysis

X

CBC with differentials, Platelets

X

a

X

b

X

d

X

Serum Creatinine, Electrolytes (K, Na, Cl,
CO2), Ca, BUN, Albumin, Total Protein,
Phosphorus, AST (SGOT), ALT (SGPT),
Alkaline Phosphatase, Total Bilirubin,
Magnesium, Uric Acid.

X

a

X

b

X

X

Fasting Glucose

X

a

X

b

X

e

X

e

Fasting serum Lipid Profile (triglycerides,
total cholesterol, HDL and LDL)

X

a

X

b

X

e

X

e

X

j

i

a
a

69

c,d

X

d

X

k

c

X

X

X

e

X

e

X

k

k
k

j

X

i,m,o

X

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014
Induction Phase (fulvestrant + everolimus or placebo for a maximum of 12 cycles)
Procedure

Pre-Study

Cycle 1

Cycle 1

Day 1*

Day 15

Day 1 Each
Subsequent
Cycle*

Every 12
weeks

End of
Induction
Phase

Continuation
Phase
(until

<OR>

progression or

End of
Treatment

unacceptable
toxicity)

Section 5.6^

HBV-DNA, HbsAg, HBsAb, HBcAb, HCVRNA-PCR

(every 3
months for total
of 3 yrs from
date of
randomization)

a,f
f,g

X

f,h

X

X

HCV RNA-PCR

X

PFTs with DLCO as medically indicated

Follow-Up Off
o
Therapy

X

HBV DNA
Study Drug Compliance (Pill Diary)

£

X

f,g

X

f,h

X

X

k
k

X

l

X

n

a: ≤ 4 weeks of randomization; if assessments required ≤ 7 days of Cycle 1 Day 1 (C1D1), they do not need to be repeated (includes labs).
b: ≤ 7 days prior to the start of C1D1.
c: +/- 72 hour window allowed prior to D1 of each subsequent cycle after the first cycle for scheduled therapy/tests/visits. Delay due to holidays, weekends,
bad weather or other unforeseen circumstances will be permitted.
d: In the event of grade 3 or 4 hematologic toxicity, CBC with differential and platelet count will be obtained every 1-3 days until there is evidence of
hematologic recovery.
e: +/- 72 hours prior to Cycle 2 Day 1 then approximately every 12 weeks during treatment (and more frequently as clinically indicated), and at end of
treatment.
f: All patients should be screened for hepatitis risk factors and any past illnesses of hepatitis B and hepatitis C infection (see Section 7.1.1). All patients with a
positive medical history per Section 7.1.1 need hepatitis testing as noted on above table. It is highly recommended that patients positive for HBV-DNA or
HBsAg are treated prophylactically with an antiviral (e.g., Lamivudine) for 1-2 weeks prior to receiving study drug (see Table 5-3). The antiviral treatment
should continue throughout the entire study period and for at least 4 weeks after the last dose of everolimus.
g: Patients on antiviral prophylaxis treatment or positive HBV antibodies should be tested for HBV-DNA ≤ 7 days prior to the start of C1D1 and +/- 72 hrs prior
to D1 of each subsequent cycle to monitor for reactivation. See Table 5-4 for reactivation instructions.
h: Patients with positive HCV RNA-PCR results at screening and/or a history of past infection (even if treated and considered ‘cured’) should have HCV RNAPCR testing performed on ≤ 7 days prior to the start of C1D1 and +/- 72 hrs prior to D1 of each subsequent cycle to monitor for flare. Everolimus must be
discontinued if HCV flare is confirmed according to the guidance in Table 5-5.
i: Tumor measurements may be made using physical examination, CT Scans or MRI. Tumor assessments will be performed every 12 weeks, +/- 1 week
(every 3 months). Imaging will include chest and abdomen. Bone Scans and Brain CT/MRI may be performed as clinically indicated. Scans do not have to be
repeated once disease progression is documented.
j: Adverse events related to fulvestrant and/or everolimus/placebo will be followed for 30 days after the last dose of study therapy (fulvestrant and/or
everolimus/placebo) or until ≤ grade 1 or if the grade is >1, the event must be permanent and stable. Please note- Serious adverse events >30 days after last
dose of fulvestrant and/or everolimus/placebo are not reported unless the event may be related to everolimus/placebo.
70

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014
k: CBC and chemistry may be used to assess ongoing toxicity but are not required in the Continuation Phase for patients who receive fulvestrant alone.
Patients who continue fulvestrant with everolimus should periodically have CBC, chemistries, fasting glucose, fasting lipids, HBV DNA, HCV RNA-PCR per
labeling guidelines.
l: Study Drug Compliance (Pill Diary) for those patients who receive everolimus in the Continuation Phase.
m: All patients including those that discontinue protocol therapy will be followed for 3 years from the time of randomization. Patients that have not progressed
during the Induction or Continuation Phase will continue to have imaging scans completed every 12 weeks, +/- 1 week (every 3 months) until documented
progression.
n: PFTs with DLCO as medically indicated only, (PFTs are not otherwise required during course of study).
o: Follow every 3 months for disease progression and survival. Initiation of any new systemic therapy will also be documented.
* Cycle 1, Day 1 is defined as the first day on which fulvestrant is given in combination with placebo/everolimus (the second fulvestrant dose is given on day 15
of the first cycle only). Day 1 of each additional cycle is defined as the day in which fulvestrant is given in combination with everolimus/placebo.
^ End of Induction/End of Treatment should be performed within 30 days of last dose of fulvestrant.
£ Continuation Phase: Patients in the Continuation Phase should continue to receive fulvestrant alone (if originally randomized to placebo) or in combination
with everolimus (if originally randomized to everolimus) at the same dose and schedule (+/- 1 week window for scheduled therapy/tests/visits; delays due to
holidays, weekends, bad weather or other unforeseen circumstances will be permitted) until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

71

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

7.1

Procedures by Visit

Written informed consent must be obtained prior to any study required procedures that
would not have been performed as part of normal patient care at the site.

7.1.1

Pre-Study

Prior to randomization, patients will complete the informed consent process and have all
required protocol assessments completed in order to assess eligibility requirements. All
procedures and an assessment of eligibility should be documented in the patient record.
Within ≤ 4 weeks of randomization to protocol therapy:
•

Medical history

•

Assessment of baseline signs and symptoms

•

Physical examination

•

Concomitant medication assessment (see Appendix C for list of excluded or
medications requiring monitoring on study)

•

Vital signs, including blood pressure, heart rate and temperature, height and weight

•

Assessment of ECOG performance status

•

Imaging scans for complete disease assessment. Care should be taken to continue
to use the same evaluation method during the study as used for initial evaluation.
See Section 6 for additional details.

•

PT with INR

•

Urinalysis

•

CBC with differential and platelets

•

Serum Creatinine, Electrolytes (K, Na, Cl, CO2), Ca, BUN, Albumin, Total Protein,
Phosphorus, AST (SGOT), ALT (SGPT), Alkaline Phosphatase, Total Bilirubin,
Magnesium and Uric Acid

•

Fasting Glucose

•

Fasting Serum Lipid Profile (triglycerides, total cholesterol, HDL and LDL)

A detailed assessment of hepatitis B/C medical history and risk factors must be done for
all patients. Patients with positive hepatitis B and/or hepatitis C test results must begin a
course of antivirals within 1-2 weeks prior to the first dose of everolimus (as outlined in
Section 5.3.2.2 and 5.3.2.3).
Testing for hepatitis B viral load and serologic markers: HBV-DNA, HBsAg, HBsAb,
HBcAb and HCV RNA-PCR are required at screening for all patients in the following risk
categories:
o All patients who have lived in Asia, Africa, Central and South America, Eastern
Europe, Spain, Portugal, and Greece.
[http://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/yellowbook/2012/chapter-3-infectious-diseasesrelated-to-travel/hepatitis-b.htm]

72

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

o Patients with any of the following risk factors:
• known or suspected past hepatitis B infection
• blood transfusion(s) prior to 1990
• current or prior IV drug users
• current or prior dialysis
• household contact with hepatitis B infected patient(s)
• current or prior high-risk sexual activity
• body piercing or tattoos
• mother known to have hepatitis B
• history suggestive of hepatitis B infection, e.g., dark urine, jaundice, right
upper quadrant pain.
o Additional patients at the discretion of the investigator

Testing for hepatitis C should be performed using quantitative RNA-PCR at screening for
all patients in the following risk categories:
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o

known or suspected past hepatitis C infection (including patients with past
interferon ‘curative’ treatment)
blood transfusions prior to 1990
current or prior IV drug users
current or prior dialysis
household contact of hepatitis C infected patient(s)
current or prior high-risk sexual activity
body piercing or tattoos
At the discretion of the investigator, additional patients may also be tested for
hepatitis C.

Final determination of eligibility and randomization to therapy should be done only after
all assessments are completed.

7.1.2

Induction Phase (fulvestrant + everolimus/placebo)

Day 1 of each cycle is defined as the day in which fulvestrant is given, including the first
fulvestrant dose, third fulvestrant dose, and every dose thereafter (the second fulvestrant
doses is given on day 15 of the first cycle only). Note: If patient previously received one
cycle of fulvestrant (day 1 and day 15) prior to study entry as permitted in Inclusion
Criteria #8, patient should receive fulvestrant 500 mg on day 1 only.
Patients will be assessed continually for toxicity and study continuation. Protocol therapy
doses should be calculated and modified as per Section 5. Assessment of disease for
response should be performed as per Section 6.
One cycle in the Induction Phase is equal to 28 days. Patients are treated for a
maximum of 12 cycles in the Induction Phase.
7.1.2.1

Within 7 Days of Cycle 1 Day 1

Note: The following assessments do not have to be repeated if the pre-study
assessments were performed within ≤ 7 days of Cycle 1 Day 1.

73

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

•

Physical examination

•

Concomitant medication assessment (see Appendix C for list of excluded or
medications requiring monitoring on study)

•

Vital signs, including blood pressure, heart rate, temperature and weight

•

Assessment of ECOG performance status

•

Adverse event assessment and dose modifications as necessary (AEs should be
monitored continuously). AE assessment should begin after the first dose of study
medication has been administered.

•

CBC with differential and platelets

•

Serum Creatinine, Electrolytes (K, Na, Cl, CO2), Ca, BUN, Albumin, Total Protein,
Phosphorus, AST (SGOT), ALT (SGPT), Alkaline Phosphatase, Total Bilirubin,
Magnesium and Uric Acid

•

Fasting Glucose

•

Fasting Serum Lipid Profile (triglycerides, total cholesterol, HDL and LDL)

•

Patients on antiviral prophylaxis treatment or positive HBV antibodies should be
tested for HBV-DNA on Cycle 1 Day 1 and Day 1 of all subsequent cycles (every 28
days) to monitor for re-activation. If re-activation is confirmed, everolimus must be
interrupted or discontinued according to the guidance in Table 5-4. Patients with
positive HCV RNA-PCR results at screening and/or a history of past infection (even if
treated and considered ‘cured’) should have HCV RNA-PCR testing performed on
Cycle 1 Day 1 and Day 1 of all subsequent cycles (every 28 days) to monitor for
flare. Everolimus must be discontinued if HCV reactivation is confirmed according to
the guidance in Table 5-5.

7.1.2.2

Cycle 1 Day 15

•

Physical examination

•

Concomitant medication assessment (see Appendix C for list of excluded or
medications requiring monitoring on study)

•

Vital signs, including blood pressure, heart rate, temperature, and weight

•

Assessment of ECOG performance status

•

Adverse event assessment and dose modifications as necessary (AEs should be
monitored continuously). (see Section 5.3 for dose modification guidelines)

•

CBC with differential and platelets. In the event of grade 3 or 4 hematologic toxicity,
CBC with differentia and platelet count will be obtained every 1-3 days until there is
evidence of hematologic recovery.

•

Serum Creatinine, Electrolytes (K, Na, Cl, CO2), Ca, BUN, Albumin, Total Protein,
Phosphorus, AST (SGOT), ALT (SGPT), Alkaline Phosphatase, Total Bilirubin,
Magnesium and Uric Acid

•

Study Drug Compliance (Pill Diary) for everolimus/placebo

74

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

7.1.2.3

Cycle 2 (and each subsequent cycle) Day 1

•

Physical examination

•

Concomitant medication assessment (see Appendix C for list of excluded or
medications requiring monitoring on study)

•

Vital signs, including blood pressure, heart rate, temperature and weight

•

Assessment of ECOG performance status

•

Adverse event assessment and dose modifications as necessary (AEs should be
monitored continuously, see Section 5.3 for dose modification guidelines).

•

CBC with differential and platelets. In the event of grade 3 or 4 hematologic toxicity,
CBC with differential and platelet count will be obtained every 1-3 days until there is
evidence of hematologic recovery.

•

Serum Creatinine, Electrolytes (K, Na, Cl, CO2), Ca, BUN, Albumin, Total Protein,
Phosphorus, AST (SGOT), ALT (SGPT), Alkaline Phosphatase, Total Bilirubin,
Magnesium and Uric Acid

•

Fasting Glucose (Cycle 2 Day 1, then every 12 weeks during treatment, and more
frequently as clinically indicated)

•

Fasting Serum Lipid Profile (triglycerides, total cholesterol, HDL and LDL) (Cycle 2
Day 1, then every 12 weeks during treatment, and more frequently as clinically
indicated)

•

Patients on antiviral prophylaxis treatment or positive HBV antibodies should be
tested for HBV-DNA on Cycle 1 Day 1 and Day 1 of all subsequent cycles (every 28
days) to monitor for re-activation. If re-activation is confirmed, everolimus must be
interrupted or discontinued according to the guidance in Table 5-4. Patients with
positive HCV RNA-PCR results at screening and/or a history of past infection (even if
treated and considered ‘cured’) should have HCV RNA-PCR testing performed on
Cycle 1 Day 1 and Day 1 of all subsequent cycles (every 28 days) to monitor for
flare. Everolimus must be discontinued if HCV reactivation is confirmed according to
the guidance in Table 5-5.

•

Study Drug Compliance (Pill Diary) for everolimus/placebo

7.1.2.4

Every 12 Weeks

•

Tumor evaluation every 12 weeks, +/- 1 week (every 3 months) during the Induction
Phase. Scans should be repeated at the assigned intervals regardless of cycle or
treatment delays.

•

Fasting Glucose and Fasting Serum Lipid Profile (triglycerides, total cholesterol, HDL
and LDL) to be done every 12 weeks during Induction Phase (and more frequently
as clinically indicated)

75

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

7.1.3

End of Induction Phase <OR> End of Treatment

All patients will have the following assessments completed whether they are moving into
the Continuation Phase or no longer will be receiving treatment and are moving into
Follow-Up Off-Therapy due to reasons noted in Sections 5.5 or 5.6. The assessments
should be completed within 30 days of last dose of fulvestrant and before moving from
the Induction Phase into the Continuation Phase or before moving directly into the
Follow-Up Phase. (Note: Day 1 of the Continuation Phase should start on D29 of cycle
12 if the assessments below are completed in order to maintain the 28 day fulvestrant
dosing schedule).
•

Physical examination

•

Concomitant medication assessment (see Appendix C for list of excluded or
medications requiring monitoring on study)

•

Vital signs, including blood pressure, heart rate, temperature and weight

•

Assessment of ECOG performance status

•

Adverse event assessment. All patients will be followed for toxicity assessment for
30 days after the last dose of study therapy (fulvestrant and/or everolimus/placebo)
or until resolution to ≤ grade 1 attributed to study therapy (or if >grade 1, event must
be permanent and stable). Serious adverse events >30 days after last dose of
fulvestrant and/or everolimus/placebo are not reported unless the event may be
related to everolimus/placebo.

•

Tumor evaluation if due per every 12 weeks +/- 1 week (every 3 months) evaluation
schedule.

•

CBC with differential and platelets

•

Serum Creatinine, Electrolytes (K, Na, Cl, CO2), Ca, BUN, Albumin, Total Protein,
Phosphorus, AST (SGOT), ALT (SGPT), Alkaline Phosphatase, Total Bilirubin,
Magnesium and Uric Acid

•

Fasting Glucose

•

Fasting Serum Lipid Profile (triglycerides, total cholesterol, HDL and LDL)

•

Study Drug Compliance (Pill Diary) for everolimus/placebo

Patients in the Continuation Phase should continue to receive fulvestrant alone (if
originally randomized to placebo) or in combination with everolimus (if originally
randomized to everolimus) at the same dose and schedule until disease progression or
unacceptable toxicity.
Patients that are moving from the Induction Phase into Follow-Up Off Therapy should
not receive further investigational therapies for at least 30 days after the last dose of
study drug, if possible, in order to eliminate overlapping toxicity.

76

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

7.1.4

Continuation Phase (fulvestrant +/- everolimus)

Patients with no evidence of disease progression after 12 cycles of treatment (Induction
Phase) will be unblinded and proceed to the Continuation Phase. Patients in the
Continuation Phase should continue to receive fulvestrant alone (if originally randomized
to placebo) or in combination with everolimus (if originally randomized to everolimus) at
the same dose and schedule until disease progression is documented or unacceptable
toxicity. Once progression is documented, patients will move into Follow-Up Off Therapy.
One cycle in the Continuation Phase is equal to 28 days. Day 1 of the Continuation
Phase should start 28 days (D29) after the last dose of fulvestrant was given during
Cycle 12 in the Induction Phase.
All adverse events that are related to fulvestrant and/or everolimus will be followed for 30
days after the last dose of study therapy (fulvestrant and/or everolimus) until ≤ grade 1
or if the grade is >1, the event must be permanent and stable.
•

CBC and chemistry may be used to monitor any ongoing toxicities, but are not
required for patients that receive fulvestrant alone.

•

Patients who continue fulvestrant in combination with everolimus should periodically
have CBC, chemistries, fasting glucose, fasting serum lipids, HBV DNA, and HCV
RNA-PCR per labeling guidelines.

•

Study Drug Compliance (Pill Diary) for those patients who receive everolimus in the
Continuation Phase.

After the Continuation Phase, serious adverse events >30 days after last dose of
fulvestrant and/or everolimus are not reported unless the event may be related to
everolimus.
7.1.4.1
•

Every 12 Weeks

Tumor evaluation every 12 weeks, +/- 1 week (every 3 months) during the
Continuation Phase until disease progression is documented.

7.1.5

Follow-Up Off-Therapy

All patients, including those who discontinue protocol therapy, will be followed for 3
years from the time of randomization. Patients that did not progress during the Induction
or Continuation Phase will continue to have imaging scans completed every 3 months
until documented progression. Patients will then be followed for survival. Initiation of any
new systemic therapy will also be documented. Patients that have adverse events
related to fulvestrant and/or everolimus/placebo will be followed for 30 days after the last
dose of study therapy (fulvestrant and/or everolimus/placebo) until ≤ grade 1 or if the
grade is >1, the event must be permanent and stable. Serious adverse events >30 days
after last dose of fulvestrant and/or everolimus/placebo are not reported unless the event
may be related to everolimus/placebo.

77

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

8

Drug Formulation and Procurement

8.1

Everolimus
8.1.1

Packaging and Labeling

Full instructions for investigator sites and investigational pharmacies will be available in
separate protocol-specific documents. The supply of everolimus or placebo will be
shipped directly to the local investigator. Drug ordering procedures will be provided in
supplemental study materials.
8.1.1.1

How Supplied

Everolimus and an identically appearing placebo will be provided by Novartis.
Everolimus is formulated as tablets for oral administration of 5 mg strength. Tablets are
blister-packed under aluminum foil in units of 10 tablets per blister card, which should be
opened only at the time of administration as drug is both hygroscopic and light-sensitive.
Each tablet contains as inactive ingredients: butylhyroxytoluene/butylated
hydroxytoluene (BHT), magnesium stearate, lactose monohydrate, hypromellose,
crospovidone and lactose anhydrous.
Medication labels will comply with US legal requirements and be printed in English. They
will supply no information about the patient. The storage conditions for study drug will be
described on the medication label.

8.1.2

Storage Requirements/Stability

Everolimus should be stored at room temperature between 20°C to 25°C (68°F to 77°F).
All investigational products must be kept in a secure place under appropriate storage
conditions. A description of the appropriate storage and shipment conditions is specified
on the investigational product label and investigator brochure. The stored study drug
supplies must be accessible to authorized staff only. The storage area must also have
adequate control of temperature in order to maintain stability and potency of study drug
supplies. The tablets should be stored in the original pack until use. For further
information, investigators should refer to the current Investigators Brochure (IB).

8.1.3
8.1.3.1

Handling, Dispensing and Administration

Handling

No special precautions are necessary when handling intact tablets. Avoid contact with
skin and eyes. Wash hands after use. The risk to health in normal handling of tablets is
very low. Exposure to dust from crushed tablets may cause adverse health effects.
8.1.3.2

Dispensing

Drug should be dispensed in original packaging. If other packaging is required by
institutional policy, this procedure will need to be approved by PrECOG, or their
designee, prior to proceeding. The PrECOG Site Contact should be contacted for further

78

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

instruction. Investigational product records should be kept as per Section 8.1.5 and
institutional policies.
8.1.3.3

Administration

Patients should be instructed to take their assigned, once-a-day oral dose of
everolimus/placebo at the same time each morning.
•

Everolimus/placebo dose may be taken with or without food.

•

Patients should be instructed to swallow the capsules whole and not chew them.

•

Vomited doses should not be replaced.

•

If the patient forgets to take the medication and remembers by 10 PM, they may take
the dose. Otherwise, skip that dose and begin as usual the next day.

In cases where tablets cannot be swallowed, the tablets should be disintegrated in water
just prior to being taken. Approximately 30 mL (2 tablespoons) of water should be put
into a glass. The tablets should then be added and the contents stirred gently (for a
maximum of 7 minutes) until the tablets are disintegrated. The contents should then be
drunk.
Patients should be given instructions on correct dosing based on study requirements
and toxicity management (dose modifications). All changes to recommended dosing
regimen/schedule should be documented in the patient record. Documentation of patient
instructions for dosing changes should also be in source records.
Patients should be instructed to record the reason for any missed doses and report to
the investigator at the next visit. If a dose is vomited, that dose should not be replaced,
(and recorded as a vomited dose).
Compliance with therapy will be assessed at the beginning of each cycle. Patients will be
given a diary (see Appendix F for an Example Patient Pill Diary) for recording of doses of
study drug as provided by each study site. A copy of the patient diary will be provided to
sites in study materials.
8.1.3.4

Special Instructions for Unblinding

Patients on study therapy and all site study staff will remain blinded as to the assignment
of everolimus or placebo. Patients who have not had progressive disease and remain on
study after 12 cycles are unblinded and continue fulvestrant alone (if originally
randomized to placebo) or in combination with everolimus (if originally randomized to
everolimus) at the same dose and schedule in the Continuation Phase. If an emergency
situation arises and the patient must be unblinded during the Induction Phase (Cycles 112), the Medical Monitor for the study must be consulted.
Emergency Unblinding for Patients during the Induction Phase (within Cycles 1-12):
Unblinding is a serious action that should be restricted in order to limit potential study
bias. The breaking of the blinding code in all cases will render the patient off-protocol.
The Medical Monitor for the study must be involved in the decision to unblind and must
grant approval for unblinding any individual. Requests for unblinding will only be
considered in the event of an emergency or severe adverse reaction where identification

79

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

of the medication is considered important for the welfare of the patient, and the rationale
for unblinding is applicable to the situation. All patients should be provided emergency
medical care by the treating physician and appropriate therapies for the medical
emergency should be initiated prior to the request for unblinding.
For example, a Serious Adverse Event (SAE) possibly, probably or definitely related to
the study drug occurs during the trial and the treatment of the SAE would be influenced
by whether he/she received everolimus or placebo. Unblinding is typically not necessary
if the medical management of the patient would not be materially altered by knowledge
of the treatment assignment. In the event that accidental unblinding occurs, the Principal
Investigator should report the occurrence promptly to the Medical Monitor and document
the incident in the patient records. All unblinding will be recorded as a protocol deviation.
If a participant is in a life-threatening situation in which knowledge of the treatment is
crucial to care AND the Medical Monitor cannot be reached immediately, the PM should
be contacted to facilitate the unblinding process. A report including the unblinding details
will be generated after the patient has been unblinded and will be sent to the site for
documentation (refer to Study Reference Manual for Unblinding Process). Report
information will include but is not limited to:
•
•
•
•
•

ID number of the participant whose treatment assignment was unblinded
Date of unblinding and reconciliation of study drug in site and patient records
Reason for unblinding, including initial SAE report
Person responsible for unblinding
List of persons who are unblinded (e.g. study staff)

8.1.4

Side Effects

The most common adverse reactions (incidence ≥ 10%) reported for everolimus include
stomatitis, rash, fatigue, asthenia, diarrhea, anorexia, nausea, mucosal inflammation,
vomiting, cough, peripheral edema, infections, dry skin, epistaxis, pruritus, and dyspnea.
The most commonly reported grade 3-4 adverse reactions (incidence ≥ 2%) reported for
everolimus include infections, stomatitis, fatigue, and pneumonitis.

8.1.5

Investigational Product Records at Investigational Site(s)

Investigational product dispensing record/inventory logs and copies of signed packing
lists must be maintained at the investigational site for everolimus. It is the responsibility
of the Investigator to ensure that a current record of investigational product disposition is
maintained at each study site where investigational product is stored and/or dispensed.
Records must comply with applicable regulations and guidelines, and should include:
•

Amount received and placed in storage area.

•

Amount currently in storage area.

•

Label ID number or batch number.

•

Dates and initials of person responsible for each investigational product inventory
entry/movement.

80

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

•

Amount dispensed to and returned by each patient, including unique patient
identifiers.

•

Amount transferred to another area for dispensing or storage.

•

Non-study disposition (e.g., wasted, broken).

•

Amount returned to manufacturer, if applicable

•

Amount destroyed at study site, if applicable

8.1.6

Return and Destruction of Investigational Product

Investigational product should be maintained at the site for accountability purposes.
Sites will be referred to the study pharmacy manual for instructions regarding the return
or destruction of everolimus study drug supply (site’s drug destruction policy must be
reviewed and approved by PrECOG before any study drug can be destroyed at a site).
Patients will be instructed to return all blister packs (empty or partially used) to the study
center.

8.2

Fulvestrant (Faslodex)
8.2.1

Packaging and Labeling

Fulvestrant is commercially available and approved and is indicated for the treatment of
HR-positive metastatic breast cancer in postmenopausal women whose disease has
returned or progressed following antiestrogen therapy.
Investigators should review the approved Package Insert (PI) (http://www.faslodex.com/
faslodex-prescribing-info/index.aspx) for full information on storage, handling,
preparation and stability.
Fulvestrant is supplied as:
One clear neutral glass (Type 1) barrel containing 250 mg/5 mL (50 mg/mL) Injection for
intramuscular injection and fitted with a tamper-evident closure. NDC 0310-0720-50.
(Note: Patients will be receiving 500 mg doses IM therefore 2 injections of 250 mg will
be required for one dose.)
The syringes are presented in a tray with polystyrene plunger rod and safety needles
(SafetyGlide™) for connection to the barrel.
Each injection contains as inactive ingredients: Alcohol, USP, Benzyl Alcohol, NF, and
Benzyl Benzoate, USP as co-solvents, and Castor Oil, USP as a co-solvent and release
rate modifier.

81

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

8.2.2
8.2.2.1

Handling and Dispensing

Storage Requirements/Stability

Refrigerate 2°-8°C (36°-46°F). To protect from light, store in the original carton until time
of use.
8.2.2.2

Preparation and Administration

Fulvestrant should be disposed of or destroyed as per written institutional policies and
per recommendations in the current approved Package Insert. To help avoid infectious
diseases due to accidental needle sticks, contaminated needles should not be recapped
or removed, unless there is no alternative or that such action is required by a specific
medical procedure.
WARNING: - Do not autoclave safety needle before use. Hands must remain
behind the needle at all times during use and disposal.
Directions:
(Source: Faslodex® Package Insert 1621903 Rev 12/11)
• Remove the glass syringe barrel from tray and check that it is not damaged
• Remove perforated patient record label from syringe
• Peel open the safety needle outer packaging.
• Break the seal of the white plastic cover on the syringe luer connector to remove the
cover with the attached rubber tip cap (Figure 1).
• Twist to lock the needle to the luer container.
• Remove the needle sheath. Pull shield straight off needle to avoid damaging needle
point.
• Remove excess gas from the syringe.
• Administer intramuscularly slowly in the buttock. Administer injection following
package instruction. For user convenience, the needle ‘bevel up’ position is
orientated to the lever arm (Figure 3).
• Immediately activate needle protection device upon withdrawal from patient by
pushing lever arm completely forward until the tip is fully covered (Figure 2).
• Visually confirm that the lever arm has fully advanced and the needle tip is covered.
If unable to activate, discard immediately into an approved sharps collector.
Activation of the protective mechanism may cause minimal splatter of fluid that may
remain on the needle after injection. For greatest safety, use a one-handed
technique and activate away from self and others.
• If the 250 mg/5 mL formulation is used, repeat the above steps for the second
syringe. After single use, discard in an approved sharps collector in accordance with
applicable regulations and institutional policy.
• Review the official package insert for more information regarding the use of the
SafetyGlide Needle.

82

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

8.2.3

Side Effects

The most commonly reported adverse experiences in the Faslodex® treatment groups,
regardless of the investigator’s assessment of causality, were gastrointestinal symptoms
(including nausea, vomiting, constipation, diarrhea and abdominal pain), headache, back
pain, vasodilatation (hot flushes), and pharyngitis.
Injection site reactions with mild transient pain and inflammation were seen with
Faslodex® and occurred in 7% of patients (1% of treatments) given the single 5 mL
injection (predominately European Trial) and in 27% of patients (4.6% of treatments)
given the 2 x 2.5 mL injections (North American Trial).
Other adverse events reported as drug-related and seen infrequently (<1%) include
thromboembolic phenomena, myalgia, vertigo, leukopenia and hypersensitivity reactions
including angioedema and urticaria. Vaginal bleeding has been reported infrequently
(<1%), mainly in patients during the first 6 weeks after changing from existing hormonal
therapy to treatment with Faslodex® If bleeding persists, further evaluation should be
considered.

83

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

9

Statistical Considerations

The efficacy endpoints will be assessed among all eligible patients who receive protocol
therapy. Safety endpoints will be assessed among all treated patients, regardless of
eligibility.

9.1

Primary Efficacy Endpoint

The primary efficacy endpoint is progression-free survival (PFS). PFS is defined as the
time from randomization to documented disease progression or death. Based on results
from the CONFIRM trial, median PFS among patients with AI-resistant disease on
fulvestrant alone is 5.4 months. AI resistant disease is defined as: patients who have
either relapsed while receiving adjuvant therapy with an aromatase inhibitor
(anastrozole, letrozole, or exemestane) or have progressive disease while receiving an
aromatase inhibitor for metastatic disease. (Patients previously treated with two or more
prior cycles of fulvestrant are not eligible. Patients who have received one prior cycle
(day 1 and day 15) of fulvestrant within 28 days of randomization are eligible so long as
they meet other eligibility criteria). Randomization will be 1:1, stratified for balancing
purposes using ECOG performance status (0 vs. 1), presence of measurable disease
(yes vs. no), and prior chemotherapy (yes vs. no).
We hypothesize that the addition of everolimus to fulvestrant will result in an
improvement in median PFS to 9.2 months. A one-sided stratified logrank test with a
type I error rate of 10% will be used to evaluate whether the addition of everolimus
shows promising improvement in PFS relative to fulvestrant alone. To have 90% power
to detect the hypothesized improvement, enrollment of approximately 120 eligible
patients (60 per arm) and full information of 98 events (deaths or progressions) are
required. Allowing up to 10 patients to be ineligible or to not start study treatment,
approximately 130 patients will need to be enrolled. With accrual of approximately 130
patients in 12 months, the required 98 events are expected to occur approximately 12
months after accrual is completed. Other endpoints that will be evaluated include clinical
benefit rate (proportion stable or responding for at least 6 months), objective response
rate (CR+PR), time to progression (TTP; defined as the time from randomization until
progression of the disease), and overall survival (OS; defined as the time from
randomization until death or censored at the date of last follow-up).
PFS will be evaluated using the stratified log-rank test described above, as will TTP and
OS. Kaplan-Meier plots will be used to graphically portray these time-to-event endpoints.
Clinical benefit rate and objective response rates will be compared between arms using
Fisher’s exact tests. 90% exact binomial confidence intervals on the rates will be
provided.

9.2

Safety Analyses

A descriptive comparison of overall toxicity and of grade 3-4 toxicity in the combination
arm and the fulvestrant arm will be provided. Assuming 65 patients are treated on each
arm, the exact binomial 90% confidence interval on the rate of severe toxicities will be no
wider than 22% (+/- 11%). The probabilities of observing a rare toxicity (true rate of 5%)
will be 96% on each arm.

84

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

9.3

Analyses of Other Secondary Endpoints

Other endpoints that will be evaluated include overall survival, time to progression, and
objective response rate. Overall survival will be characterized using Kaplan-Meier plots
and other descriptive metrics. The objective response rate will be provided for each arm,
with 90% exact binomial confidence intervals. Median time to progression will be
estimated for each arm.

85

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

10 Adverse Event Reporting
10.1 Collection of Safety Information
Adverse Event (AE) is defined as any new untoward medical occurrence or worsening
of a pre-existing medical condition in a patient administered a medicinal product in a
clinical investigation and which does not necessarily have a causal relationship with this
treatment. An AE can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an
abnormal laboratory finding, for example), symptom, or disease temporally associated
with the use of a product (investigational or marketed), whether or not considered related
to the product (investigational or marketed). Abnormal laboratory values or test results
constitute adverse events only if they induce clinical signs and symptoms, are
considered clinically significant, or require therapy.
Following written consent to participate in the study, all serious AEs should be collected
on a patient. The collection of non-serious AE information should begin at initiation of
therapy.
All identified AEs must be recorded and described on the appropriate page of the Case
Report Form (CRF). If known, the diagnosis of the underlying illness or disorder should
be recorded, rather than individual symptoms. The following information should be
documented for all AEs: date of onset and resolution, severity of the event; the
investigator’s opinion of the relationship to investigational product (see definitions
below); treatment required for the AE; cause of the event (if known); and information
regarding resolution/outcome.
Severity
CTCAE term (AE description) and grade: The descriptions and grading scales found
in the revised NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version
4.0 will be utilized for AE reporting. A copy of the CTCAE Version 4.0 can be
downloaded from the CTEP web site (http://ctep.cancer.gov).
All appropriate treatment areas should have access to a copy of the CTEP CTCAE
Version 4.0 (see Appendix E).
Attribution
The following categories and definitions of causal relationship or attribution to study drug
should be used to assess Adverse Events:
•

Definite: There is a reasonable causal relationship between the study drug and the
event. The event responds to withdrawal of study drug (dechallenge) and recurs with
rechallenge, if clinically feasible.

•

Probable: There is a reasonable causal relationship between the study drug and the
event. The event responds to dechallenge. Rechallenge is not required.

•

Possible: There is a reasonable causal relationship between the study drug and the
event. Dechallenge information is lacking or unclear.

•

Unlikely: There is doubtful causal relationship between the study drug and the event.

86

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

•

Unrelated: There is clearly not a causal relationship between the study drug and the
event or there is a causal relationship between another drug, concurrent disease, or
circumstances and the event.

Categories ‘Definite’, ‘probable’ and ‘possible’ are considered study drug related.
Categories ‘not likely’ and ‘not related’ are considered not study drug-related.
The development of a new cancer should be regarded as an AE. New cancers are those
that are not the primary reason for administration of study treatment and have been
identified after inclusion of the patient into the clinical study.
AEs related to fulvestrant and/or everolimus/placebo will be followed for 30 days
after the last dose of study therapy (fulvestrant and/or everolimus/placebo) until ≤
grade 1 or stabilization, and reported as SAEs if they become serious. Serious
adverse events >30 days after last dose of fulvestrant and/or everolimus/placebo
are not reported unless the event may be related to everolimus/placebo.

10.2 Handling of Serious Adverse Events (SAEs)
10.2.1 SAE Definitions
A serious AE is any untoward medical occurrence occurring after informed consent is
granted or that at any dose:
•

results in death,

•

is life-threatening (defined as an event in which the study patient was at risk of death
at the time of the event; it does not refer to an event which hypothetically might have
caused death if it were more severe),

•

requires inpatient hospitalization or causes prolongation of existing hospitalization,

•

results in persistent or significant disability/incapacity,

•

is a congenital anomaly/birth defect,

•

is an important medical event (defined as a medical event(s) that may not be
immediately life-threatening or result in death or hospitalization but, based upon
appropriate medical and scientific judgment, may jeopardize the patient or may
require intervention (e.g., medical, surgical) to prevent one of the other serious
outcomes listed in the definition above.)
Examples of such events include, but are not limited to, intensive treatment in an
emergency room or at home for allergic bronchospasm; blood dyscrasias or
convulsions that do not result in hospitalization.

10.2.2 SAE Reporting Requirements
All serious adverse events require expeditious handling and reporting to comply with
regulatory requirements. The Principal Investigator has the obligation to report all
serious adverse events to PrECOG, or their designee. A study specific SAE form to be
utilized for SAE reporting will be provided with supplemental study materials.

87

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

All serious adverse events that occur either during the study period (Induction and/or
Continuation) or within 30 days of discontinuation of dosing regardless of event
relationship to the study medications (fulvestrant and/or everolimus/placebo) should be
reported to PrECOG, or their designee within 24 hours of the investigator’s knowledge of
the event or, when the event occurs on a weekend or national holiday, at the latest on
the following working day. All deaths during treatment or within 30 days following
completion of active protocol therapy must be reported. Serious adverse events that
occur >30 days from last dose of fulvestrant and/or everolimus/placebo and are judged
related to the everolimus/placebo (definitely, probably or possibly) must be reported to
PrECOG, or their designee using the 24 hour timeline noted above. If only limited
information is initially available, follow-up reports are required. Serious adverse events
that occur >30 days from last dose of fulvestrant and are judged to be related to
fulvestrant will follow normal reporting mechanisms for commercial drugs.
SAE Hotline Phone Number:
610-354-0404 during normal business hours (8:30 AM – 5 PM EST)
484-574-2367 after normal business hours (after 5 PM EST)
SAE Fax Number:
888-801-8795
PrECOG will notify Novartis Pharmaceuticals Drug Safety and Epidemiology Department
(DS&E) of all SAE’s within 24 hours of the Awareness Date. Relevant follow-up
information will be provided to Novartis DS&E as soon as it becomes available.
In addition, Investigators should also report event(s) to their IRB as required.
Collection of complete information concerning SAEs is extremely important. Full
descriptions of each event will be followed. Thus, follow-up information which becomes
available as the SAE evolves, as well as supporting documentation (e.g., hospital
discharge summaries and autopsy reports), should be collected subsequently, if not
available at the time of the initial report, and immediately sent using the same procedure
as the initial SAE report. The original and all follow-up SAEs form must be kept on file at
the study site.
For Comparator Drugs/Secondary Suspects (Concomitant Medications), all serious
adverse experiences will be forwarded to the product manufacturer by PrECOG (or their
designee), if applicable.

10.3 Reporting of Second Primary Cancers
New cancers are those that are not the primary reason for administration of study
treatment and have been identified after inclusion of the patient into the clinical study.
All cases of new primary cancers that occur during or after protocol treatment must be
reported to PrECOG within 30 days of diagnosis, regardless of relationship to protocol
treatment. Secondary primary malignancies should also be reported as a SAE. This form
is not for use for reporting recurrence or development of metastatic disease. A copy of
the pathology report, if applicable, should be sent, if available.
Note: Once data regarding survival and remission status are no longer required by the
protocol, no follow-up data should be submitted, including the PrECOG Second Primary
Form.

88

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

11 Administrative
11.1 Protocol Compliance
The study shall be conducted as described in this protocol. All revisions to the protocol
must be discussed with, and be prepared by PrECOG and/or representatives. The
Investigator should not implement any deviation or change to the protocol or consent
without prior review and documented approval from PrECOG and/or representatives and
the IRB of an amendment, except where necessary to eliminate an immediate hazard(s)
to study patients.
If a deviation or change to the approved protocol is implemented to eliminate an
immediate hazard(s) prior to obtaining IRB approval, notification will be submitted to the
IRB for review and approval as soon as possible afterward. Documentation of approval
signed by the chairperson or designee of the IRB(s) should be in the study records. If
PrECOG and/or representatives provides an amendment that substantially alters the
study design or increases the potential risk to the patient; the consent form must be
revised and submitted to the IRB(s) for review and approval; the revised form must be
used to obtain consent from patients currently enrolled in the study if they are affected
by the amendment; and the new form must be used to obtain consent from new patients
prior to study entry. Information as to who investigators should send correspondence will
be provided in additional study documents.

11.2 Institutional Review Board
Before study initiation, the Investigator must have written and dated approval from their
respective IRB for the protocol, consent form, patient recruitment materials/process and
any other written information to be provided to patients. The Investigator should also
provide the IRB with a copy of the Investigator Brochure or product labeling, and any
updates.
The Investigator should provide the IRB with reports, updates, and other information
(e.g., Safety Updates, amendments, and administrative letters) according to regulatory
requirements, IRB or study site procedures.

11.3 Informed Consent Procedures
Investigators must ensure that patients who volunteer for clinical trials or their legally
acceptable representative are clearly and fully informed about the purpose, potential
risks and other information.
A protocol specific informed consent form (ICF) template will be provided to sites.
Preparation of the site-specific consent form is the responsibility of the site Investigator
and must include all applicable regulatory and IRB requirements, and must adhere to
Good Clinical Practice (GCP) and to the ethical principles that have their origin in the
Declaration of Helsinki. All changes to the ICF template will be approved by PrECOG
and/or their representatives prior to implementation.
In accordance with the Health Information Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), the
consent process will also include written authorization by patients to release medical
information to allow PrECOG and/or its agents, regulatory authorities, and the IRB of
89

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

record at the study site for access to patient records and medical information relevant to
the study, including the medical history. This will be documented in the informed consent
form or other approved form obtained at the time of informed consent per institutional
policies. This form should also be submitted to PrECOG and/or its agents for review
prior to its implementation.
The Investigator must provide the patient or legally acceptable representative with a
copy of the consent form and written information about the study in the language in
which the patient is most proficient. The language must be non-technical and easily
understood. The Investigator should allow time necessary for patient or patient's legally
acceptable representative to inquire about the details of the study, then informed
consent must be signed and personally dated by the patient or the patient's legally
acceptable representative and by the person who conducted the informed consent
discussion. The patient or legally acceptable representative should receive a copy of the
signed informed consent and any other written information provided to study patients
prior to patient's participation in the trial. The investigator is responsible for assuring
adequate documentation of this process and for storage and maintenance of the original
signed consent form for each patient/subject.
The informed consent and any other information provided to patients or the patient's
legally acceptable representative, should be revised whenever important new
information becomes available that is relevant to the patient's consent, and should
receive IRB approval prior to use. The Investigator, or a person designated by the
Investigator should inform the patient or the patient's legally acceptable representative of
all pertinent aspects of the study and of any new information relevant to the patient's
willingness to continue participation in the study. This communication should be
documented in the patient record. During a patient's participation in the trial, any updates
to the consent form and any updates to the written information will be provided to the
patient.

11.4 Safety Communication
Investigators will be notified of all AEs that are serious, unexpected, and definitely,
probably, or possibly related to the investigational product. Upon receiving such notices,
the Investigator must review and retain the notice with the Investigator Brochure and
submit a copy of this information to the Institutional Review Board (IRB) according to
local regulations. The Investigator and IRB will determine if the informed consent
requires revision. The Investigator should also comply with the IRB procedures for
reporting any other safety information. All revisions should be submitted to PrECOG
and/or agents for review.

11.5 Monitoring
Representatives and agents of PrECOG and, as applicable to the study, the
manufacturer of Investigational Product must be allowed to visit all study site locations
periodically to assess the data, quality and study integrity. The purpose of this visit is to
review study records and directly compare them with source documents and discuss the
conduct of the study with the Investigator, and verify that the facilities remain acceptable.
The study may be evaluated by other auditors and government inspectors who must be
allowed access to electronic Case Report Forms (eCRFs), source documents and other
90

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

study files. The investigator must notify PrECOG of any scheduled visits by regulatory
authorities, and submit copies of all reports. Information as to who investigators should
notify of an audit or where to address questions will be provided in additional study
materials. Monitoring of drug accountability will also occur.

11.6 Study Records
An Investigator is required to maintain adequate regulatory files with corresponding
communication and approvals, accurate histories, observations and other data on each
individual treated. Full details of required regulatory documents will be provided in
additional study materials. Data reported on the eCRF must be consistent with the
source documents as part of the patient record.
The confidentiality of records that could identify patients must be protected, respecting
the privacy and confidentiality rules in accordance with the applicable regulatory
requirement(s).
A study specific signature record will be maintained to document signatures and initials
of all persons at a study site who are authorized to make entries and/or corrections on
eCRFs as well as document other study-specific roles.

11.7 Electronic Case Report Form (eCRF) Information
Additional information regarding eCRF instructions, timelines for data entry/submission
and query completion can be found in supplemental materials provided to the site. Sites
will be expected to complete eCRFs as per the schedule provided and submit all
relevant data as per the specified timelines. All items recorded on eCRFs must be found
in source documents.
The completed eCRF must be promptly reviewed, electronically signed, and dated by a
qualified physician who is an Investigator or Sub-Investigator.
Instructions for management of patients who do not receive any protocol therapy:
If a patient is randomized and does not receive any assigned protocol treatment,
baseline, Serious Adverse Event and follow-up data will still be entered and must be
submitted according to the eCRF instructions. Document the reason for not starting
protocol treatment on the appropriate electronic off-treatment form.

11.8 Records Retention
FDA Regulations (21CFR 312.62) require clinical investigators to retain all trial-related
documentation, including source documents for the periods described below for studies
performed under a US IND:
•
•
•

two years after the FDA approves the marketing application, or
two years after the FDA disapproves the application for the indication being studied,
or
two years after the FDA is notified by the sponsor of the discontinuation of trials and
that an application will not be submitted.

The Investigator must retain investigational product disposition records, copies of eCRFs
(or electronic files), and source documents for the maximum period required by

91

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

applicable regulations and guidelines, or Institution procedures, whichever is longer but
not less than 5 years from the completion of the study. The Investigator must contact
PrECOG and/or representatives prior to destroying any records associated with the
study.
Information as to who investigators should contact for questions will be provided in
additional study documents. PrECOG and/or representatives will notify the Investigator
when the trial records for this study are no longer needed.

92

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

12 Glossary of Terms and List of Abbreviations
Term

Definition

4E-BP1

4E-Binding Protein

Ab
ADPKD

Antibodies
Autosomal Dominant Polycystic Kidney Disease

ADR

Adverse Drug Reaction

AE(s)

Adverse Events(s)

Akt/PKB

Protein Kinase B

AI

Aromatase Inhibitor

Alk Phos

Alkaline Phosphatase

ALT/SGPT
AMD

Alanine Aminotransferase/Glutamic Pyruvic Transaminase/Serum GlutamicPyruvic Transaminase
Age-Related Macular Degeneration

ANC

Absolute Neutrophil Count

ASCO-CAP

American Society of Clinical Oncology-College of American Pathologist

AST/SGOT

Aspartate
Aminotransferase/Glutamic
Glutamic-Oxaloacetic Transaminase

AUC
°C

Area Under the Concentration-Time Curve
degrees Celsius

Ca

Calcium

CBC

Complete Blood Count

CBR

Clinical Benefit Rate

CI

Confidence Interval

CISH

Chromogenic In Situ Hybridization

Cl

Chloride

cm
Cmax

centimeter
Maximum plasma concentration

CO2

Carbon Dioxide

CoA

Coenzyme A

COPD

Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease

CPK

Creatine Phosphokinase

CR

Complete Response

CRC

Colorectal Cancer

Creat

Creatinine

CRF

Case Report Form

CRO

Contract Research Organization

CT

Computer Tomography

CTC

Common Toxicity Criteria

93

Oxaloacetic

Transaminase/Serum

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

Term

Definition

CTCAE

The CTEP Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE)

CTEP

Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program

CYP3A4

CytochromeP450 3A4 Isoenzyme

DLBCL

Diffuse Large B Cell Lymphoma

DLCO

Diffusing Capacity of the Lung for Carbon Monoxide

DLT

Dose Limiting Toxicity

DNA

Deoxyribonucleic Acid

DS&E

Drug Safety and Epidemiology

eCRF
e.g.
ER

Electronic Case Report Form
exempli gratia (for example)
Estrogen Receptor

FSH
EU
FDA

Follicle Stimulating Hormone
European Union
Food and Drug Administration
Fluorine-18-2-fluoro-Deoxy-D-Glucose Positron Emission Tomography

FDG-PET
FISH
FKBP-12
FSH

Fluorescence In Situ Hybridization
FK506-Binding Protein 12
Follicle Stimulating Hormone

GBM

Glioblastoma Multiforme

GCP

Good Clinical Practice

GEP-NET

Gastroenteropancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumor

GERD

Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease

GF

Growth Factor

GI

Gastrointestinal

GnRH

Gonadotropin-Releasing Hormone

HBV

Hepatitis B Virus

HBcAb

Hepatitis B core Antibodies

HBsAb

Hpatitis B surface Antibodies

HbsAg

Hepatitis B surface Antigen

HCC

Hepatocellular Cancer

HCV

Hepatitis C Virus

HER-2

Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 2

HIF-1

Hypoxia-Inducible Factor-1

HIPAA

Health Information Portability and Accountability Act

HIV

Human Immunodeficiency Virus

HMG

3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl

HR

Hormone-Receptor

HUVECS

Human Umbilical Endothelial Cells

IB

Investigator Brochure (also called Investigator Drug Brochure, IDB)

94

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

Term

Definition

ICF

Informed Consent Form

ICH

International Conference on Harmonization

IND
INN

Investigational New Drug
International Non-Proprietary Name

INR

International Normal Ratio

IRB
IU

Institutional Review Board
International Unit

IV

Intravenous

IWR

Interactive Web Randomization

K

Potassium

kg

Kilogram

L

Liter

LDH

Lactate Dehydrogenase

LDL

Low-Density Lypoproteins

LFTs

Liver Function Tests

LLN

Lower Limit Normal

LMW
Log10

Low Molecular Weight
Decadic logarithm (common logarithm)

M

Meter

mg
Mg

Milligram
Magnesium

min

minute

mL

Milliliter

mRCC

Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma

MRI

Magnetic Resonance Imaging

mTOR

mammalian Target of Rapamycin

N
Na

Number of patients or observations
Sodium

N/A

Not Applicable

NCI

National Cancer Institute

NSCLC

Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer

Ng

Nanogram

µM
Nm

Nanometer

nM

Nanomolar

OS

Overall Survival

PD

Progressive Disease
Phosphoinositide 3-kinase

P13K

Micromolar

95

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

Term

Definition

PI

Package Insert

PBMC

Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cells

PCR
PET

Polymerase Chain Reaction
Proton Emission Tomography

PFS
PgP

Progression Free Survival
P-glycoprotein

PK

Pharmacokinetic

Plt

Platelet

PNET

Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumor

PO
PR

Per Oral (by mouth route of administration)
Partial Response

PR-positive

Progesterone Receptor

PSA

Prostate-Specific Antigen

PTEN

Phosphatase and Tensin Homolog Deleted on Chromosome 10

PT/PTT

Prothrombin Time/Partial Thromboplastin Time

QC
QD

Quality Control
Once Daily
the interval between the beginning of the Q-wave and the end of the T-wave on
an electrocardiogram

QT
QTc

corrected Q to T wave interval on electrocardiogram

RCC
RECIST
RNA

Renal Cell Carcinoma
Response Evaluation Criterion Solid Tumors
Ribonucleic Acid
Response Rate

RR
RTK
S6K1
SAE
SC
SCLC
SD
SEGA
SERD

Receptor Tyrosine Kinase
S6 Kinase 1
Serious Adverse Event
Subcutaneous
Small Cell Lung Cancer
Stable Disease
Subependymal Giant Cell Astrocytoma
Selective Estrogen Receptor Down-Regulators

SERM

Selective Estrogen Receptor Modulator

T Bili
TKI

Total Bilirubin
Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor

TS

Tuberous Sclerosis

TSC

Tuberous Sclerosis Complex

TTP

Time to Progression

96

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

Term

Definition

TUNNEL

Terminal Deoxynucleotidyl Transferase (TdT)-Mediated dUTP-Biotin Nick End
Labeling

µg

microgram

ULN

Upper Limit Normal

US

United States

USP
VEGF

United States Pharmacopeia
Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor

WBC

White Blood Cell Count

WHO

World Health Organization

97

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

13 Appendix A: Eligibility Checklist


Pt Initials: ___ ___ ___
F

M

L

Study Personnel: ____________________________
Date of Evaluation: ___/___/____

INCLUSION CRITERIA
Must be willing to sign a protocol-specific informed consent.
Consent Date: _____/_____/_____

Consent in patient record

Age > 18 and female.
Birth Date: _____/_____/_____

Documentation in patient record

ECOG Performance Status 0 or 1.
PS

0

1

(must document in patient record)

Patient must have histologically or cytologically confirmed adenocarcinoma of the breast.
Pathology Date: _____/_____/______

Pathology must be in patient record

Must have stage IV disease or inoperable locally advanced disease.
Documentation in patient record (via imaging scans as per RECIST Section 6.0)
Patients must have ER and/or PR-positive disease as determined by their local pathology or
51
reference laboratory by ASCO-CAP criteria. Tumors must be HER-2/neu negative or equivocal
52
by standard ICH/FISH or ICH/CISH methodologies by ASCO-CAP criteria.
ER+

PR+

ER+ and PR+

Tumor is HER-2/neu negative by standard ICH/FISH or ICH/CISH methodologies
Pathology Date: _____/_____/______

Pathology must be in patient record

Patients must have had relapse while receiving adjuvant therapy with an aromatase inhibitor
(anastrozole, letrozole, or exemestane), OR progressive disease while receiving an aromatase
inhibitor for metastatic disease. Note: Patients may have received an endocrine agent (e.g.,
Tamoxifen) between the time of progression on an AI and registration.
Documentation in patient record
Patients previously treated with two or more prior cycles of fulvestrant are not eligible. Patients
who have received one prior cycle (dose on day 1 and day 15) of fulvestrant within 28 days of
randomization are eligible as long as they meet other eligibility criteria.
Documentation in patient record
Patients must be post menopausal. (see Section 3.1)
Documentation in patient record

98

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014


Pt Initials: ___ ___ ___
F

M

L

Study Personnel: ____________________________
Date of Evaluation: ___/___/____

Patient may have received up to one prior systemic chemotherapy regimen for metastatic
disease.
no prior systemic chemotherapy
one prior systemic chemotherapy regimen
documentation in patient record
Adequate end organ function, as evidenced by the following obtained within 4 weeks of
randomization: all must be present (see Section 7.0 for labs that may need to be repeated within
≤ 7 days of Cycle 1, Day 1)
9

Total White Blood Cell Count (leucocytes, WBC) ≥ 3.0 x 10 /L, absolute neutrophil count
9
9
(ANC) ≥ 1.5 x 10 /L and platelet count ≥ 100 x 10 /L
(Total WBC value:_________unit__________)
(ANC value:_________unit__________)
(Platelet Count value:_________unit__________)
Hemoglobin ≥ 9 g/dL
(value:_________unit___________)
Serum Bilirubin ≤ 1.5 x ULN
(value:_________unit___________ULN_______)
AST or ALT ≤ 2.5 x ULN (≤ 5 x ULN in patients with liver metastases)
(AST value:_________unit___________ULN_______)
(ALT value:_________unit___________ULN_______)
Serum Creatinine ≤ 1.5 x ULN (value:_________unit___________ULN_______)
Serum Albumin ≥ 3 g/dL
(value:_________unit__________)
Fasting Serum Cholesterol ≤ 300 mg/dL OR ≤ 7.75 mmol/L AND Fasting Triglycerides ≤ 2.5 x
ULN Note: In case one or both of these thresholds are exceeded, the patient can only be
included after initiation of appropriate lipid lowering medication.
(Fasting Serum Cholesterol value:_________unit__________)
(Fasting Triglycerides value:_________unit___________ULN_______)
PT with INR ≤ 1.5. (Anticoagulation is allowed if target INR ≤ 1.5 on a stable dose of warfarin
or on a stable dose of low molecular weight heparin for >2 weeks at time of randomization.
(INR value:_________unit___________)
(PT value:_________unit___________)
Documentation in patient record

99

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014


Pt Initials: ___ ___ ___
F

M

L

Study Personnel: ____________________________
Date of Evaluation: ___/___/____

Patients may have measurable disease, non-measurable disease (e.g., bone only metastases),
or both. Response and progression will be evaluated in this study using the new international
criteria proposed by the revised Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST)
guideline (Version 1.1) [Eur J Ca 45:228-247, 2009]. Measurable lesions are defined as those
that can be accurately measured in at least one dimension (longest diameter to be recorded) as
≥ 20 mm by chest x-ray, as ≥ 10 mm with CT scan, or ≥ 10 mm with calipers by clinical exam. All
tumor measurements must be recorded in millimeters (or decimal fractions of centimeters).
Measurable disease only
Non-measurable disease only
Both measurable and non-measurable disease
Documentation in patient record
Note: Tumor lesions in a previously irradiated field are not considered measurable.
Patients with basal cell or squamous cell carcinoma of the skin or carcinoma in situ of the cervix
within the past five years must have been treated with curative intent. Patients with a history of
prior malignancy are eligible provided they were treated with curative intent and have been free
of disease for >3 years.
N/A

Date of treatment: _____/_____/_____

Documentation in patient record

EXCLUSION CRITERIA
Patients who have had any major surgery or significant traumatic injury within 4 weeks of
randomization, or have not recovered from the side effects of any major surgery (defined as
requiring general anesthesia) or patients that may require major surgery during the course of the
study are not eligible. (Placement of vascular access device will not be considered major
surgery.)
Date of surgery: _____/_____/_____

N/A

Documentation in patient record

Patients may not be receiving any other investigational agents or have received any
investigational agent within 4 weeks of randomization.
Date of last treatment: _____/_____/_____

N/A

Documentation in patient record

Patients must not be receiving any concomitant anticancer treatment or have received anticancer
treatment within 4 weeks of randomization (including chemotherapy, radiation therapy, antibody
based therapy, e.g.), with the following exceptions:
• Bisphosphonates, Zometa or Xgeva for bone metastases
• Hormonal therapy (e.g., AI, Tamoxifen)
• a GnRH analog is permitted if the patient had progressive disease on a GnRH analog
plus a SERM or an AI; the GnRH analog may continue but the SERM or AI must be
discontinued.
Date of last treatment: _____/_____/_____

N/A

100

Documentation in patient record

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014


Pt Initials: ___ ___ ___
F

M

L

Study Personnel: ____________________________
Date of Evaluation: ___/___/____

Patients must not have received prior treatment with an mTOR inhibitor (sirolimus, temsirolimus,
everolimus).
N/A

Documentation in patient record

Patients must not be receiving chronic, systemic treatment with corticosteroids or another
immunosuppressive agent greater than or equal to 5 mg prednisone or its equivalent daily.
Topical or inhaled corticosteroids are allowed.
N/A

Documentation in patient record

Patients must not receive immunization with attenuated live vaccines within one week of
randomization or during the study period. Close contact with those who have received attenuated
live vaccines should be avoided during treatment with everolimus. Examples of live vaccines
include intranasal influenza, measles, mumps, rubella, oral polio, BCG, yellow fever, varicella
and TY21a typhoid vaccines.
N/A

Documentation in patient record

Patients must not have current or a prior history of brain metastases or leptomeningeal disease.
Patients must not have rapidly progressive, life-threatening metastases. This includes patients
with extensive hepatic involvement (>50% of the liver involved) and symptomatic lymphangitic
metastases.
N/A

Documentation in patient record

Patients must not have a known hypersensitivity/history of allergic reactions attributed to
compounds of similar chemical or biologic composition to everolimus (or other rapamycins such
as sirolimus, temsirolimus) or fulvestrant.
N/A

Documentation in patient record

Since everolimus may cause bone marrow suppression, patients with congenital or acquired
immune deficiency at increased risk of infection are not eligible. This includes patients being
treated with chronic immunosuppressive agents (including greater than or equal to 5 mg
prednisone or its equivalent daily), and patients with known HIV seropositivity.
N/A

Documentation in patient record

Patients must not have any impairment of gastrointestinal function or gastrointestinal disease
that may significantly alter the absorption of everolimus (e.g., ulcerative disease, uncontrolled
nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, malabsorption syndrome or small bowel resection).
N/A

Documentation in patient record

Patients must not have an active, bleeding diathesis.
N/A

Documentation in patient record

101

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014


Pt Initials: ___ ___ ___
F

M

L

Study Personnel: ____________________________
Date of Evaluation: ___/___/____

Patients must not have a history of any condition or uncontrolled intercurrent illness including,
but not limited to, ongoing or active infection or psychiatric illness/social situations that in the
opinion of the investigator might intefere with or limit the patient’s ability to comply with the
protocol or pose additional or unacceptable risk to the patient.
N/A

Documentation in patient record

Patients must not have any severe and/or uncontrolled medical conditions or other conditions
that could affect their participation in the study such as:
•

Symptomatic congestive heart failure of New York Heart Association Class III or IV (see
Appendix D)

•

Unstable angina pectoris, myocardial infarction within 6 months of randomization, serious
uncontrolled cardiac arrhythmia or any other clinically significant cardiac disease

•

History of symptomatic pulmonary disease or non-malignant pulmonary disease (e.g.
COPD) requiring treatment. Such patients would be eligible if PFTs performed within 8
weeks of treatment noted a DLCO greater than 50%.

•

Uncontrolled diabetes as defined by fasting serum glucose >1.5 x ULN (Note: Optimal
glycemic control should be achieved before starting trial therapy.)

•

Active (acute or chronic) or uncontrolled severe infections

•

Liver disease such as cirrhosis or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C).

Note: A detailed assessment of Hepatitis B/C medical history and risk factors must be done at
screening for all patients. HBV DNA and HCV RNA PCR testing are required at screening for all
patients with a positive medical history based on risk factors and/or confirmation of prior
HBV/HCV infection.
N/A

Documentation in patient record

102

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

14 Appendix B: ECOG Performance Status Scale
Grade ECOG
0

Fully active, able to carry on all pre-disease performance without restriction

1

Restricted in physically strenuous activity but ambulatory and able to carry out
work of a light or sedentary nature, e.g., light house work, office work

2

Ambulatory and capable of all self-care but unable to carry out any work
activities. Up and about more than 50% of waking hours

3

Capable of only limited self-care, confined to bed or chair more than 50% of
waking hours

4

Completely disabled. Cannot carry on any self-care. Totally confined to bed or
chair

5

Dead

61

Source: Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group, Robert Comis M.D., Group Chair

103

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

15 Appendix C: Medications that can Inhibit/Induce CYP3A4
and PgP
See Section 5.3.5.1 for guidelines on use of inhibitors and Section 5.3.5.2 for guidelines
on use of inducers. Table 15-0 shows clinically relevant drug interactions for inhibitors
and inducers of isoenzyme CYP3A. Table 15-1 shows clinically relevant drug
interactions for substrates, inducers, and inhibitors of PgP and PgP/CYP3A.
Table 15-0
Clinically Relevant Drug Interactions: Inhibitors and Inducers of Isoenzyme
CYP3A
INHIBITORS
Strong Inhibitors:
clarithromycin, conivaptan, elvitegravir, indinavir, itraconazole, ketoconazole, lopinavir,
mibefradil, nefazodone, nelfinavir, posaconazole, ritonavir, saquinavir, telithromycin,
tipranavir, troleandamycin, voriconazole
(Krishna et al, 2009)
Moderate Inhibitors:
aprepitant, amprenavir, atazanavir, casopitant, cimetidine, ciprofloxacin, darunavir, diltiazem,
dronedarone, erythromycin, fluconazole, fosamprenavir, grapefruit juice (citrus parasidi fruit
juice), imatinib, tofisopam, verapamil
INDUCERS
amprenavir, aprepitant, armodafinil (R-modafinil), avasimibe, bosentan, carbamazepine,
dexamethasone, efavirenz, etravirine, glucocorticoids, modafinil, nafcillin, nevirapine,
oxcarbazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin, pioglitazone, prednisone, rifabutin, rifampin,
ritonavir, rufinamide, St. John’s wort, talviraline, tipranavir, topiramate, troglitazone

104

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

Table 15-1
Clinically Relevant Drug Interactions: Substrates, Inducers, and Inhibitors of PgP
and PgP/CYP3A
SUBSTRATES
Colchicines, digoxin, fexofenadine, indinavir, paclitaxel, topotecan, vincristine
INDUCERS
Rifampin, St. John’s wort
PgP INHIBITORS and PgP/CYP3A DUAL INHIBITORS
Amiodarone, captopril, carvedilol, clarithromycin, conivaptan, diltiazem, dronedarone,
elacridar, erythromycin, felodipine, fexofenadine, ginkgo (ginkgo biloba), indinavir,
itraconazole, lopinavir, mibefradil, milk thistle (silybum marianum), nifedipine, nitrendipine,
quercetin, quinidine, ranolazine, ritonavir, saquinavir, Schisandra chinensis, St John’s wort
(hypericum perforatum), talinolol, telmisartan, tipranavir, valspodar, verapamil
Reference: Internal Clinical Pharmacology Drug-drug interaction (DDI) memo, updated
Oct. 2, 2011, which summarizes DDI data from three sources including the FDA’s
“Guidance for Industry, Drug Interaction Studies”, the University of Washington’s Drug
Interaction Database, and Indiana University School of Medicine's Drug Interaction
Table.

105

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

16 Appendix D: New York Heart Association (NYHA) Cardiac
Classification of Functional Capacity and Objective
Assessment
In 1928 the New York Heart Association published a classification of patients with cardiac
disease based on clinical severity and prognosis. This classification has been updated in seven
subsequent editions of Nomenclature and Criteria for Diagnosis of Diseases of the Heart and
Great Vessels (Little, Brown & Co.). The ninth edition, revised by the Criteria Committee of the
American Heart Association, New York City Affiliate, was released March 4, 1994*. The new
classifications are summarized below.
The NYHA classification system relates symptoms to everyday activities and the patient’s quality
of life.

Class

Symptoms

Class I

Patients with cardiac disease but without resulting limitation of physical
activity. Ordinary physical activity does not cause undue fatigue,
palpitation, dyspnea (shortness of breath), or anginal pain.

Class II

Patients with cardiac disease resulting in slight limitation of physical
activity. Comfortable at rest, but ordinary physical activity results in
fatigue, palpitation, dyspnea or anginal pain.

Class III

Patients with cardiac disease resulting in marked limitation of physical
activity. Comfortable at rest, but less than ordinary activity causes
fatigue, palpitation, dyspnea or anginal pain.

Class IV

Patients with cardiac disease resulting in inability to carry out any
physical activity without discomfort. Symptoms of heart failure or anginal
syndrome may be present even at rest. If any physical activity is
undertaken, discomfort increases.

Objective Assessment
I:

No objective evidence of cardiovascular disease

II:

Objective evidence of minimal cardiovascular disease

III:

Objective evidence of moderately severe cardiovascular disease

IV:

Objective evidence of severe cardiovascular disease

Accessed October 2009* http://www.americanheart.org/presenter.jhtml?identifier=1712
The Criteria Committee of the New York Heart Association. Nomenclature and Criteria for Diagnosis of
Diseases of the Heart and Great Vessels. 9th ed. Boston, Mass: Little, Brown & Co; 1994:253-256.

106

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

17 Appendix E: CTEP Common Terminology Criteria for
Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 4.0
Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE)
CTCAE term (AE description) and grade: The descriptions and grading scales found
in the revised NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version
4.0 will be utilized for AE reporting. All appropriate treatment areas should have access
to a copy of the CTCAE Version 4.0. A copy of the CTCAE Version 4.0 can be
downloaded from the CTEP web site (http://ctep.cancer.gov).
All appropriate treatment areas should have access to a copy of the CTEP CTCAE
Version 4.0.

107

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

18 Appendix F: Patient Pill Diary
Copies of this form will be made available to study staff in study materials. This form is
appended as an example only, and may be modified during the study.

Site Instructions:
1. If this or a similar diary is used this may be considered source documentation, if the
diary has been reviewed and signed by a member of the study staff. Patient
compliance with protocol therapy can be assessed using a pill record or by other
documentation in the patient record.
2. Patients should be instructed to begin Day 1 with the beginning of each cycle, with
each cycle being 28 days.
3. If a dose modification occurs, patients should be given instructions for dosing, and
the form can be modified as appropriate. Any dose changes should be recorded in
the patient chart with appropriate rationale as per protocol.
4. A new form can be used at any time during a cycle; as long as the patient is made
aware of changes (e.g. study staff fills in dates and mark lines/dates not to be used).
5. It is the responsibility of the investigator to appropriately dispense and monitor study
medications and to comply with the protocol.

108

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014
Patient Name: _____________________________

Patient Study ID (filled in by Site Staff):
______________________

Patient Instructions:
1. Complete each form as instructed by your physician or study nurse.
2. You will take 2 pill(s) each day. You should take the pill(s) the same time each day, and in the
morning, if possible. If you forget to take a pill and remember by 10 PM, you may take the dose.
Otherwise just skip that dose and begin as usual the next day. Please mark dates of any missed
pills on your record.
3. .Each dose should be swallowed whole with a glass of water and may be taken with or without food.
The tablets must not be chewed or crushed. In cases where tablets cannot be swallowed, the tablets
should be disintegrated in water just prior to being taken. Approximately 30 mL (2 tablespoons) of
water should be put into a glass. The tablets should then be added and the contents stirred gently
(for a maximum of 7 minutes) until the tablets are disintegrated. The contents should then be drunk.
If you vomit after taking the study drug, you should NOT take another tablet that day. If you forget to
take the medication and remembers by 10 PM, you may take the dose. Otherwise, skip that dose
and begin as usual the next day.
4. If you have any side effects or comments, please note in the comment section or on the back of the
page. For questions or if you have any side effects that should be immediately reported to your
study doctor, please call _______________________________at: (_____) _____ - _________.
5. Please bring your pill(s) and this form to your study doctor when you go for each appointment. If
your dose changes, the study nurse or doctor will let you know. You should note this on the form.
Date

Day

# Pills

Comments

Date

Day

1
2

15
16

3

17

4

18

5

19

6

20

7

21

8

22

9

23

10

24

11

25

12

26

13

27

14

28

Patient Signature: _________________________________

# Pills

Comments

Date: ___________________

Physician Office to complete this section:
Study Personnel Signature: __________________________

109

Date: ____________________

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

19 References
1.
Moy B, Goss PE. Estrogen receptor pathway: resistance to endocrine therapy
and new therapeutic approaches. Clin Cancer Res 2006;12:4790-3.
2.
Nicholson KM, Anderson NG. The protein kinase B/Akt signalling pathway in
human malignancy. Cell Signal 2002;14:381-95.
3.
DeGraffenried LA, Friedrichs WE, Fulcher L, et al. Eicosapentaenoic acid
restores tamoxifen sensitivity in breast cancer cells with high Akt activity. Ann Oncol
2003;14:1051-6.
4.
Tokunaga E, Kataoka A, Kimura Y, et al. The association between Akt
activation and resistance to hormone therapy in metastatic breast cancer. Eur J Cancer
2006;42:629-35.
5.
Beeram M, Tan QT, Tekmal RR, Russell D, Middleton A, DeGraffenried LA.
Akt-induced endocrine therapy resistance is reversed by inhibition of mTOR signaling.
Ann Oncol 2007;18:1323-8.
6.
Perez-Tenorio G, Stal O. Activation of AKT/PKB in breast cancer predicts a
worse outcome among endocrine treated patients. Br J Cancer 2002;86:540-5.
7.
Bjornsti MA, Houghton PJ. The TOR pathway: A target for cancer therapy. Nat
Rev Cancer 2004;4:335-38.
8.
Shaw RJ, Cantley LC. Ras, PI(3)K and mTOR signalling controls tumour cell
growth. Nature 2006;441:424-30.
9.
deGraffenried LA, Friedrichs WE, Russell DH, et al. Inhibition of mTOR activity
restores tamoxifen response in breast cancer cells with aberrant Akt Activity. Clin
Cancer Res 2004;10:8059-67.
10.
Awada A, Cardoso F, Fontaine C, et al. The oral mTOR inhibitor RAD001
(everolimus) in combination with letrozole in patients with advanced breast cancer:
results of a phase I study with pharmacokinetics. Eur J Cancer 2008;44:84-91.
11.
American Cancer Society. Breast Cancer Facts & Figures 2011-2012. Atlanta:
American
Cancer
Society
Inc.;
http://www.cancer.org/acs/groups/content/@
epidemiologysurveilance/documents/document/acspc-030975.pdf
(accessed 7/11/2012)
12.
Buzdar AU. Endocrine therapy in the treatment of metastatic breast cancer.
Semin Oncol 2001;28:291-304.
13.
Campos SM, Winer EP. Hormonal therapy in postmenopausal women with
breast cancer. Oncology 2003;64:289-99.
14.
Sparano J, Pasqualini JR, eds. Breast cancer : prognosis, treatment, and
prevention. New York: Marcel Dekker; 2002.
15.
Winer EP, Hudis C, Burstein HJ, et al. American Society of Clinical Oncology
technology assessment on the use of aromatase inhibitors as adjuvant therapy for
postmenopausal women with hormone receptor-positive breast cancer: status report
2004. J Clin Oncol 2005;23:619-29.
16.
Berry J. Are all aromatase inhibitors the same? A review of controlled clinical
trials in breast cancer. Clin Ther 2005;27:1671-84.
110

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

17.
Howell A, Robertson JF, Quaresma Albano J, et al. Fulvestrant, formerly ICI
182,780, is as effective as anastrozole in postmenopausal women with advanced
breast cancer progressing after prior endocrine treatment. J Clin Oncol 2002;20:3396403.
18.
Osborne CK, Pippen J, Jones SE, et al. Double-blind, randomized trial
comparing the efficacy and tolerability of fulvestrant versus anastrozole in
postmenopausal women with advanced breast cancer progressing on prior endocrine
therapy: results of a North American trial. J Clin Oncol 2002;20:3386-95.
19.
Mauriac L, Pippen JE, Quaresma Albano J, Gertler SZ, Osborne CK.
Fulvestrant (Faslodex®) versus anastrozole for the second-line treatment of advanced
breast cancer in subgroups of postmenopausal women with visceral and non-visceral
metastases: combined results from two multicentre trials. Eur J Cancer 2003;39:122833.
20.
Howell A, Robertson JF, Abram P, et al. Comparison of fulvestrant versus
tamoxifen for the treatment of advanced breast cancer in postmenopausal women
previously untreated with endocrine therapy: a multinational, double-blind, randomized
trial. J Clin Oncol 2004;22:1605-13.
21.
Ingle JN, Suman VJ, Rowland KM, et al. Fulvestrant in women with advanced
breast cancer after progression on prior aromatase inhibitor therapy: North Central
Cancer Treatment Group Trial N0032. J Clin Oncol 2006;24:1052-6.
22.
Perey L, Paridaens R, Hawle H, et al. Clinical benefit of fulvestrant in
postmenopausal women with advanced breast cancer and primary or acquired
resistance to aromatase inhibitors: final results of phase II Swiss Group for Clinical
Cancer Research Trial (SAKK 21/00). Ann Oncol 2007;18:64-9.
23.
Chia S, Gradishar W, Mauriac L, et al. Double-blind, randomized placebo
controlled trial of fulvestrant compared with exemestane after prior nonsteroidal
aromatase inhibitor therapy in postmenopausal women with hormone receptor-positive,
advanced breast cancer: results from EFECT. J Clin Oncol 2008;26:1664-70.
24.
Di Leo A, Jerusalem G, Petruzelka L, et al. CONFIRM: A Phase III,
Randomized, Parallel-Group Trial Comparing Fulvestrant 250 mg vs Fulvestrant 500
mg in Postmenopausal Women with Estrogen Receptor-Positive Advanced Breast
Cancer. J Clin Oncol. 2010 Oct 20; 28(30):4594-600.
25.
Boulay A, Lane HA. The mammalian target of rapamycin kinase and tumor
growth inhibition. Recent Results Cancer Res 2007;172:99-124.
26.
Wullschleger S, Loewith R, Hall MN. TOR signaling in growth and metabolism.
Cell 2006;124(3):471-84.
27.
Manning BD, Cantley LC. AKT/PKB signaling: navigating downstream. Cell
2007;129(7):1261-74.
28.
Wang L, Harris TE, Roth RA, Lawrence JC, Jr. PRAS40 regulates mTORC1
kinase activity by functioning as a direct inhibitor of substrate binding. J Biol Chem
2007;282(27):20036-44.
29.
Witzig TE, Geyer SM, Ghobrial I, et al. Phase II trial of single-agent
temsirolimus (CCI-779) for relapsed mantle cell lymphoma. J Clin Oncol 2005;
23(23):5347-56.
111

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

30.
Lane HA, Wood JM, McSheehy PM, et al. mTOR inhibitor RAD001 (everolimus)
has antiangiogenic/vascular properties distinct from a VEGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor.
Clin Cancer Res 2009;15(5):1612-22.
31.
Mabuchi S, Altomare DA, Cheung M, et al. RAD001 inhibits human ovarian
cancer cell proliferation, enhances cisplatin-induced apoptosis, and prolongs survival in
an ovarian cancer model. Clin Cancer Res 2007;13(14):4261-70.
32.
Galanis E, Buckner JC, Maurer MJ, et al. Phase II trial of temsirolimus (CCI779) in recurrent glioblastoma multiforme: a North Central Cancer Treatment Group
Study. J Clin Oncol 2005;23:5294-304.
33.
O’Reilly T, McSheehy PM. Biomarker Development for the Clinical Activity of
the mTOR Inhibitor everolimus (RAD001): Processes, Limitations, and Further
Proposals. Tran Oncol; 2010 Apr; 3(2):65-79.
34.
Huang S, Houghton PJ. Inhibitors of mammalian target of rapamycin as novel
antitumor agents: from bench to clinic. Curr Opin Investig Drugs. 2002 Feb; 3(2):295304.
35.
Zitzmann K, De Toni EN, Brand S, et al. The novel mTOR inhibitor RAD001
(everolimus) induces antiproliferative effects in human pancreatic neuroendocrine
tumor cells. Neuroendocrinology 2007;85(1):54-60.
36.
Zeng Z, Sarbassov dos D, Samudio IJ, et al. Rapamycin derivatives reduce
mTORC2 signaling and inhibit AKT activation in AML. Blood 2007;109(8):3509-12.
37.
Haritunians T, Mori A, O'Kelly J, Luong QT, Giles FJ, Koeffler HP.
Antiproliferative activity of RAD001 (everolimus) as a single agent and combined with
other agents in mantle cell lymphoma. Leukemia 2007;21(2):333-9.
38.
Ikezoe T, Nishioka C, Bandobashi K, et al. Longitudinal inhibition of
PI3K/Akt/mTOR signaling by LY294002 and rapamycin induces growth arrest of adult
T-cell leukemia cells. Leuk Res 2007;31(5):673-82.
39.
Wanner K, Hipp S, Oelsner M, et al. Mammalian target of rapamycin inhibition
induces cell cycle arrest in diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL) cells and sensitises
DLBCL cells to rituximab. Br J Haematol 2006;134(5):475-84.
40.
Tuncyurek P, Mayer JM, Klug F, et al. Everolimus and mycophenolate mofetil
sensitize human pancreatic cancer cells to gemcitabine in vitro: a novel adjunct to
standard chemotherapy? Eur Surg Res 2007;39(6):380-7.
41.
Treeck O, Wackwitz B, Haus U, Ortmann O. Effects of a combined treatment
with mTOR inhibitor RAD001 and tamoxifen in vitro on growth and apoptosis of human
cancer cells. Gynecol Oncol 2006;102(2):292-9.
42.
Sieghart W, Fuereder T, Schmid K, et al. Mammalian target of rapamycin
pathway activity in hepatocellular carcinomas of patients undergoing liver
transplantation. Transplantation 2007;83(4):425-32.
43.
Lu CH, Wyszomierski SL, Tseng LM, et al. Preclinical testing of clinically
applicable strategies for overcoming trastuzumab resistance caused by PTEN
deficiency. Clin Cancer Res 2007;13(9):5883-8.
44.
Torres-Arzayus MI, Yuan J, DellaGatta JL, Lane H, Kung AL, Brown M.
Targeting the AIB1 oncogene through mammalian target of rapamycin inhibition in the
mammary gland. Cancer Res 2006;66(23):11381-8.
112

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

45.
Rossi F, Ehlers I, Agosti V, et al. Oncogenic Kit signaling and therapeutic
intervention in a mouse model of gastrointestinal stromal tumor. Proc Natl Acad Sci U
S A 2006;103(34):12843-8.
46.
Lane H, Tanaka C, Kovarik J, et al. Preclinical and clinical pharmacokinetic /
pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) modeling to help define an optimal biological dose for the
oral mTOR inhibitor, RAD001, in oncology [abstract]. J Clin Oncol; 2003; 22:237A.
47.
Tabernero J, Rojo F, Calvo E, et al. Dose- and schedule-dependent inhibition of
the mammalian target of rapamycin pathway with everolimus: A phase I tumor
pharmacodynamic study in patients with advanced solid tumors. J Clin Oncol
2008;28:10.
48.
http://www.fda.gov/NewsEvents/Newsroom/PressAnnouncements/ucm312965
.htm (accessed 8/1/2012)
49.
Baselga J, Campone M, Piccart M, et al. Everolimus in postmenopausal
hormone-receptor-positive advanced breast cancer. N Engl J Med 2012 Feb
9;366(6):520-9. Epub 2011 Dec 7. PubMed PMID: 22149876
50.
Sanchez CG, Ma CX, Crowder RJ, et al. Preclinical modeling of combined
phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase inhibition with endocrine therapy for estrogen receptorpositive breast cancer. Breast Cancer Res 2011 Mar 1;13(2):R21.
51.
Hammond ME, Hayes DF, Wolff AC, et al. American society of clinical
oncology/college of American pathologists guideline recommendations for
immunohistochemical testing of estrogen and progesterone receptors in breast cancer.
Oncol Pract. 2010 Jul;6(4):195-7. Epub 2010 Jun 23 PMCID: PMC2900870 PMID:
21037871.
52.
Wolff AC, Hammond ME, Schwartz JN, et al. American Society of Clinical
Oncology/College of American Pathologists guideline recommendations for human
epidermal growth factor receptor 2 testing in breast cancer. J Clin Oncol. 2007 Jan
1;25(1):118-45. Epub 2006 Dec 11. American Society of Clinical Oncology; College of
American Pathologists. American Society of Clinical Oncology, Alexandria, VA, USA.)
PMID: 17159189.
53.
Yeo W, Lam KC, Zee B, et al. Hepatitis B reactivation in patients with
hepatocellular carcinoma undergoing systemic chemotherapy. Ann Oncol
2004;15:1661-6.
54.
Loomba R, Rowley A, Wesley R, et al. Systematic review: the effect of
preventive lamivudine on hepatitis B reactivation during chemotherapy. Ann Intern Med
2008;148(7):519-28.
55.
Divers J, RN BSN, Texas Oncology. Management of Stomatitis Associated with
mTOR Inhibitors in Hormone Receptor-Positive HER2-Negative Advanced Breast
Cancer: Clinical Experiences from a Single Center. Presented at the 38th Annual
Oncology Nurses’ Society Congress, April 25-28, 2013. Novartis Internal
Communication.
56.
Eisenhauer EA, Therasse P, Bogaerts J, et al. New response evaluation criteria
in solid tumours: revised RECIST guideline (Version 1.1). Eur J Cancer 2009;45:22847.
57.
Bubley GJ, Carducci M, Dahut W, et al. Eligibility and response guidelines for
phase II clinical trials in androgen-independent prostate cancer: recommendations from
the Prostate-Specific Antigen Working Group. J Clin Oncol 1999;17:3461-7.
113

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

58.
Scher HI, Halabi S, Tannock I, et al. Design and end points of clinical trials for
patients with progressive prostate cancer and castrate levels of testosterone:
recommendations of the Prostate Cancer Clinical Trials Working Group. J Clin Oncol
2008;26:1148-59.
59.
Rustin GJ, Quinn M, Thigpen T, et al. Re: New guidelines to evaluate the
response to treatment in solid tumors (ovarian cancer). J Natl Cancer Inst
2004;96:487-8.
60.
Vergote I, Rustin GJ, Eisenhauer EA, et al. Re: new guidelines to evaluate the
response to treatment in solid tumors [ovarian cancer]. Gynecologic Cancer Intergroup.
J Natl Cancer Inst 2000;92:1534-5.
61.
Oken MM, Creech RH, Tormey DC, et al. Toxicity and response criteria of the
Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group. Am J Clin Oncol 1982;5:649-55.

114

PrECOG Protocol Number: PrE0102
Confidential
Date: 1/22/2014

20 Investigator’s Statement
1.

I have carefully read this protocol entitled “Randomized, Double-Blind,
Placebo-Controlled Phase II Trial of Fulvestrant (Faslodex) plus
Everolimus in Post Menopausal Patients with Hormone-Receptor
Positive Metastatic Breast Center Resistant to Aromatase Inhibitor
Therapy, Version 2.0 dated 1/22/2014” (Protocol number PrE0102)
and agree that it contains all the necessary information required to
conduct the study. I agree to conduct the study as outlined in the protocol.

2.

I agree to conduct this study according to the moral, ethical and scientific
principles governing clinical research as set out in the Declaration of
Helsinki, the principles of GCP as described in 21 CFR and any applicable
local requirements.

3.

I understand that this trial and any subsequent changes to this trial will not
be initiated without approval of the appropriate Institutional Review Board,
and that all administrative requirements of the governing body of the
institution will be complied with fully.

4.

Informed written consent will be obtained from all participating patients in
accordance with institutional and FDA requirements as specified in Title
21, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 50.

5.

I understand that my signature on the Case Report Form indicates that I
have carefully reviewed each page and accept full responsibility for the
contents thereof.

6.

I understand that the information presented in this study protocol is
confidential, and I hereby assure that no information based on the conduct
of the study will be released without prior consent from PrECOG, LLC
unless this requirement is superseded by the Food and Drug
Administration.

Principal Investigator:
PI Name:
Site Name:
Signature of PI:
Date of Signature:

\
MMM

\
DD

115

YYYY

